[train whistle blows] i don't know a recent saturday i've sold more why are you so glum? were you bothered by those waitresses making a fuss? no, but what are you supposed to do when people keep commenting on your looks? i don't even know what they mean... "beat them off with a stick" well, if that's your only problem it's not i got my report card three c's, two d's and an incomplete i see you studying so hard, tom what do you think the problem is? i just have to try harder and i will i will i will i will i will, i will, i will! i will i will! thanks, dad this talk helped can you, um sign it, please? do you think a tutor would help? that'd be great it'd better help what can you do with yourself if all you can do is look good? i'm frequently asked what special difficulties are involved in being graduated from high school two months shy of my 15th birthday i sometimes think the difficulties themselves enabled me to do it if i'd been appreciated, or even tolerated i wouldn't have been in such a hurry to graduate i hope the next student who excels isn't made to feel so much an outcast but i'm looking forward to college and this is the happiest day i've had in a long, long time so, i thank you and i forgive you - come on! - slug him! yeah! go ahead this will heal! what i'm going to say can never be erased! it'll scar you forever! ready? here it is you'll never make more than $19,000 a year! cream him! take him ok! what about this? you'll never leave south boston i'll see the whole damn world! you'll never know the pleasure of writing a graceful sentence or having an original thought! think about it! $19,000 not bad! [bell rings] dear felicio: it's truly amazing to me that we live a world apart and yet have the same favorite music i love the picture you sent me and have it up on and have it... and have it up on my bulletin board honey aah! good god, jane! daddy! don't ever do that to me! it's time for you to go to sleep i just have two more pen pals finish quickly i don't want you getting obsessive about these things good night all right obsessive obsessive dad, you want me to choose my words so carefully, then you throw a word like "obsessive" at me now, unless i'm wrong obsession is practically a psychiatric term concerning people who don't have anything else but the object of their own obsession who can't stop and do anything else well, i'm stopping to say this so be more precise instead of calling a person something like "obsessive"! good night hey, it's me you have to meet me in 30 minutes nudge your mate i don't think there's time to eat but there's probably a cafeteria at the bus depot i love working with you two it saves me a call yeah [ringing tone] hey arnold schwarzenegger is on all three networks i think he's live on two of them the wake-up news used the wrong missile graphic and they want us to take even cheaper rooms [imitating schwarzenegger] arnold said he's making $3 million a movie, but he's not ever gonna change he's still the same person when he was making $2 million a movie he also bought a condo with maria they're gonna furnish tastefully ha ha ha! half-hour in the lobby i'll see you in the lobbies [sobbing] there he is hi i'd like to talk to you for a second just a few questions no i came from washington move away from me "there might be a band at the bus depot for jd singer's return from war he was decorated for heroism..." watch this how does it feel being home? get the fuck lost fuck fuck fucking! fucking! you want to use that? depends on how big a news day it is i can't believe you said that! i'm very proud of that he really opened up to you if this were a war the united states sanctioned world war ii or vietnam... you really ought to work on your speech it makes me nervous to think about it let's do this i'm not expecting any big homecoming we are being increasingly influenced by the star system the network anchormen are so powerful they comprise our last best hope our profession is in danger ahem [woman] so, where do you want to go eat? the current group is clearly qualified tied still to our best traditions but who follows these men? excuse me we are being pressured to take a loyalty oath wow i've known so many women like that they don't like their looks, so they're angry excuse me all of you know what i'm talking about we're all trying to act tougher than we are but we care, so we're all secretly terrified by what's happening aren't we? ah-choo! catch you later i was going to talk about other trends, but magazine shows, news as profit the historic influence of entertainment tonight the danger, the hope the dream, the question oh! i was going to show you a tape a story carried by all networks on the same night the same night that not one network noted a major policy change in salt ii nuclear disarmament talks here's what they ran instead [voice cracks] please show the tape [speaking foreign language] i know it's good film i know it's fun i like fun it's just not news well, you're lucky you love it you'll get a lot more just like it good thank you i don't think there'll be any q and a i think it's over i'm going to get a bite to eat hi hello i just wanted to tell you how great you were my name's tom grunick thank you yeah they hated me i don't hate them well, they say if you can reach even one person, it means something and you did that would you like to have dinner with me? sure another thing i can't stand... is this dull? no! no, no no no another thing i can't stand is when white house reporters bullshit with each other after a briefing, and one of them has a theory and the other quotes it in his story as "white house sources say" that actually goes on? yes! i am not tired you want to talk in my room? sure aw, come on even i'm not that hard on myself no, really i got this job on a fluke and wait till you hear how it ends up i was doing sports at this station the newspaper ran this untrue story that i was leaving and they got these tons of protest mail ha ha ha! so... so they made me anchor so, great right? except i'm no good at what i'm being a success at how are you at back rubs? it's normal, the way you feel in graduate school, everyone thought the admissions committee made a mistake in letting them in you think i lack confidence that's not it i know i can talk well enough and i can make contact with people but i don't like the feeling that i'm pretending to be a reporter and half the time i don't get the news i'm talking about it's not that i'm down on myself trust me i stink! i trust you i didn't even have a chance to become really good at sports i wasn't bad what about the obvious remedy... reversing things, maybe working at a newspaper i don't write ha ha! but that didn't stop me from sending my audition tapes to the bigger stations and the networks well, come on it is your life nobody is tying you to the fast track did you go to college? so you're not well-educated you have almost no experience and you can't write yeah, and i'm and i'm making a fortune it's hard for me to advise you since you personify something that i truly think is dangerous uh-huh i agree that you're not qualified so get qualified insist on being better prepared don't just leave it with, " uh i don't write, i'm not schooled i don't understand the news but at least i'm upset about it" whoa what do you want from me permission to be a fake? stop whining do something about it! um you don't have to start right now i hated the way you talked to me just now and it wasn't just because you were right oh, god ha ha ha! oh, god oh, god oh! no, no, no it wasn't just the speech the same thing happened with this guy i have passed some line someplace i am beginning to repel people i'm trying to seduce he must've been great-looking why? nobody invites a bad-looking idiot to their bedroom ok, let's do me i feel like i'm slipping but do people who are slipping feel that way or do the good people who are moving up invariably think they're slipping because their standards are so high? this conversation is not worthy of you i wish that were true good night wouldn't it be great if insecurity and desperation made us more attractive? if needy were a turn-on? call if you get weird hmm? take care, doll i will [ring] i was just thinking it was our shortest phone conversation ever [tom] i never told you the reason i was telling you everything those audition tapes i sent... i've been hired by your network for the washington bureau so i'll probably see you at work what? sorry they didn't hire peter stiller from the times and he had a great audition tape they can't take on people like this for network news what is going on? newsroom wait a minute yes, jerry, hold on play it back ok, what about this? here's a tough ethical one would you tell a source you love them just to get information? - yes - yes - me, too - sure jennifer didn't know there was an alternative ha ha ha! here's a good one they let us have cameras at an execution in florida do you broadcast tape of the guy when they turn on the voltage? - sure - you bet - why not? - absolutely nothing like wrestling with a moral dilemma speak to you later bobby, go to 9:45:46 the soundbite that starts "why were you in angola?" we could go all... please, bobby! we're pushing [tape rewinding] why were you in angola? politics? money? what brings you to these places? that's where the job's at that's what i get paid for they said i should observe we're working here! you can stand... play the last line thanks bobby, let me hear it jane! we need it in 14 minutes [telephone rings] just a second let me hear it what did you expect when you came back? it's a long time since i've seen my folks but i'm not expecting any big homecoming stop there i want to shoot the homecoming from a norman rockwell book i have in the office you don't have time! i'll be right down i have to tell ernie because there isn't enough time! yes, there is! i don't think she's going to make it ha ha ha! [monitor] it was a surprise you want copy? yes, doll, 15 seconds just a 2-second dissolve to the rockwell should l... just a 2-second dissolve! we have three minutes! why do you do this to me? is it because i won an award? homecoming... norman rockwell's enduring portrait the return of a fighting man has always been a moving ceremony of war we have 11/2 minutes i have to tell new york we're not ready we'll be ready in 84 seconds? 15 seconds lay it in, bobby the screen will be black because we're not there! what about careers, huh? we won't make it! whoops whoops? bobby, bobby, bobby, bobby, bobby oh, god! bobby, bobby, bobby, bobby blair! you got it! we'll make it, blair! oh! oh! go! uh! uh! hey, watch it there! whoa! open the damn door! thank you! hey! ow! fighting inside the perimeter tell new york we won't be ready there she is ok stand by here! take it! was there in other times there might be a band at the bus depot guys homecoming... norman rockwell's enduring portrait the return of a fighting man has always been a moving ceremony of war tearful women, proud men excited children but jd singer was right his homecoming was no big deal aaron altman, lincoln, nebraska an american comes home that's your news i'm bill rorish good evening look at that smile that was good work his, uh bill smiled he liked it bill loved it that's a big smile bill hasn't smiled like that in weeks! good piece thanks, ernie i got to see it again he did smile ha ha ha! don't tell anyone i did this i'm sorry if i got in the way it was totally impressive! it was just a great piece! you weren't thanks how does it feel? i can't believe i'm here where did martin go? downstairs i can't believe i'm here no, i'm wrong he went to research i can't believe i'm here! if you're through work now... no aaron and i go to central america on wednesday, so i am cramming i thought you were incredible in there everybody was i have a lot to learn i would really a lot appreciate it... "really a lot appreciate it"? you make me nervous anyway if i can pick your brain, if i can't help you sorry i'm not here to teach remedial reporting it has nothing to do with the fact that i left your room instead of staying? oh! ha! please! you're going to have to understand something this isn't personal ok good night good night [speaking spanish] [speaking spanish] [speaking spanish] ok, ok esta bien [speaking spanish] si gracias oye para un americano no habla mal espanol really? i'm sure you speak english very well, too he says they've engaged the sandinistas regularly he expects shooting tonight if anything happens to me tell every woman i've ever dated i was talking about her at the end they'll have to re-evaluate me put on the boot no! manny, no! no stop, stop, stop we're not here to stage the news wait and see what they do sir, you can do whatever you want it's your choice ok [whispering in spanish] [whispering] he just said he's scared [gunfire] ok, let's get this it's too dark no, it's not just go! aaron, go [gunfire] the first shots were fired not 10 seconds ago from over there, towards the east the contras feel they must be outnumbered that's a given they've managed to hold their ground despite the fact that their weapons have been acting up no new shipment of arms is expected until tomorrow all they got today were shoes great line at the end did you get a shot of the boots? of course i can't believe i just risked my life for a network that tests my face with focus groups! i don't feel good ha ha ha! [sobbing] the proposal stipulates electing a president from among several candidates graphic on in two seconds hi how's it going? cc, we need control of 5 chosen by the military command a firefight along the nicaraguan border when we return audio is up full the first shots were fired not 10 seconds ago from over there, towards the east freeze freeze it back over congratulations, you two finally got a piece in early, huh? bill saw it earlier he loved it no kidding? no one's checked the spelling on these chyrons there's a guy downstairs clerk vouched for him he has something to say about gays getting promotions at state could i buy you dinner sometime? i just got back i don't know which end is up ok jane! bill rorish is asking for you i've never heard of him handing out compliments during a show jane, if it gets any better than that i'll have to bring you up here to new york thanks i wish you'd kept the first 20 seconds but thank you well, the visual with the shoes at the end was just perfect he loved the boots! aaron should hear this so i have another witness you always want to give the credit away, don't you? no he happens to deserve the credit he's right here i'll speak to you soon he had to read over some new copy what? can i watch you tape that interview downstairs? yes thanks the contras have only a few months [whispering] laugh so they don't think i'm dying inside but have so much style that i just said something funny ha ha ha! what did he say? ha ha ha! oh, i'll never tell the contras, who are creeping back into action i once made some stupid remark about his hairline he'll never forget it! ok i'll meet the crew there could you give me that address one more time? right yeah, it's good to finally be getting to work 17204 colorado right like the state yeah got it yeah bye jane, i've got a story jane? [honk] hi how are you? wait i need you i got a story some public official skipped a week on his christmas club? the house armed services committee has a secret report which says that the allen fighting vehicle the army poured a fortune into plain won't work they have $5 million in this thing already billion right, billion ok of course they said i could have any producer i want and i want you [tom] one committee source called it a $5 billion metal sculpture too ugly to look at and too big to bury over time, however, costs have doubled did you write this? i write for you sometimes not because you have to firepower to defend itself against enemy tanks the suspension system had to be redesigned because of the vehicle's extra weight the allen can carry only six infantrymen oh, come on the vehicle to sink in shallow water general elton mcguire is in charge of the weapons system general, i don't want to bother you anymore tom rates two cameras, huh? tomorrow you'll see a mob of me here if you have anything to say, sir say it now, the way you want it's great you left in what you said yes, please, let's never forget we're the real story not them yeah, i know i couldn't decide about it he's not afraid of being human shh! before the house armed services committee tom grunick, the pentagon as if the pentagon didn't have enough problems thanks, jane sure tom? my youngest wanted to meet you this is elli hi, elli you should be honored she never wanted to meet anyone here before dad but she said she loved you on television just now hi, elli remember me? l-i'm not sure i'm sorry i've been to your house aaron was on that 14-day raft trip with us last year oh, yeah i wore a big yellow raincoat oh, yeah it had a hood yeah! hi! your hair's different yeah hi! hi, elli she knows me [tom] hi, dad did you see it? great i'll send you a tape i'm sorry i haven't called things got a little bumpy for a while no, it's not important i'm fine hey, dad i think i just may be able to do this job ha ha ha! well, i'm glad you were sure! ah our host! come on in sorry we're late it's jane’s fault smells good it is good anne worked all weekend why should we feel defensive about it? newspapers are in business to make money why not us? they criticize us for pandering while they run wingo games exactly right excuse me i'm paid to mix ha ha! good-bye, paul take care, paul it takes courage to say that to the news division president you think anyone who's proud of our work is an ass kisser no i think anyone who puckers their lips and smooches their boss's buttocks is an ass kisser my gosh! for a while there, i was attracted to you well, wait a minute that changes everything they wouldn't renew my magazine subscription because of money i can't believe it ha ha ha! martin, would you excuse us for a minute? no go away well, you know, i've been meaning to ask you ah, forget it this is very awkward i see tom around you a lot i'd like to see him outside of work unless there's some reason for you to mind whoa, whoa, whoa do i mind? why would i mind? no wait i do mind i think about him outside of work sometimes but i know i don't respect him what am i talking about? what am i saying? you're saying, "stay away from him" i can't be we don't have to settle this right now wait a minute this is slippery i will call you i'll call you from the other room right now i've studied these things tell me one person who ever left television news to work on a newspaper right it sure looks good [clunk] after all these years we have a life see you see you hey hi, tom hi it's the first time i've seen you dressed like this you look so clean and pretty what do you mean? clean? at the office you have this film over you i've got to find someone it's important excuse me jennifer hey! jennifer! forget what i said do whatever you want to with tom there's nothing i'm going to do right this second it's your day off you're entitled you weren't really leaving yes you were? yes no! he thought it was funny hi! a plane shot up an air base in sicily this could be very, very... that's it! ok, right away ernie? tom? tom yeah what is it? a libyan plane just shot up one of our bases in sicily we should tap our source jennifer, we need you jane, we want you to exec produce a special report a libyan plane shot up an american base in sicily since paul is here he's made the assignments... jennifer at the white house george at the pentagon, martin at state we need an anchor since rorish is on his boat we're doing the report from here with tom what? you're not going to use him at all? it's not my choice it's 1:35, and it's tom you can reach me at the office paul, forgive me i'm really sorry pardon me for interrupting, but paul, i need to talk to you outside great tom's not near ready for this job not by the longest shot aaron spent six weeks in tripoli he's interviewed qaddafi he reported on the '81 story he's essential to do our best job it's my responsibility to say so that's your opinion i don't agree it's not opinion you're just absolutely right and i'm absolutely wrong it must be nice to always believe you're right to always think you're the smartest person in the room no, it's awful you'd better get going hey! would you come on? nervous? excited tell george and jennifer to try and cover everything without tom having to ask ok bobby says... did you hear what i said? take a breath and most important make sure his earpiece works have backups ready that's never been more vital he must be able to hear me [telephone rings] get a picture of e-2 hawkeyes i can put on the feed prompt [telephone rings] [gargling] we're going to the white house tom we have 20 minutes you can wait in the studio i got tom's copy [telephone rings] ahem [music playing] [singing in french] [singing along] aghh! stand by, animation ready vtr 1 and 2 ready to announce ready on camera 1 with cue stand by good luck, kid ready i need five six 30 seconds to air time everyone here is programmed clearly? yeah, everyone's good executive producer wow! how many seconds to air? stand by, camera 1 camera 2, center it up a little left tom, can you hear me? tom, can you hear me? tom? tom tom! tom? tom! damn it! he can't hear me! i can hear you i was just teasing and announce cue him with effects good afternoon a libyan fighter plane attacked a us military installation at comiso, sicily, at 1007 am, eastern time the libyan mig-21 was shot down by american f-14 jets the base, a us naval air station there are 500 men and women stationed there the libyan bombs destroyed a warehouse which 30 minutes earlier had been crowded with servicemen [stereo] (music)bought a one-way ticket back (music) i can sing while i read (music) (music) i am singing and reading both (music) (music)leavin' (music) on that midnight train to georgia (music)leavin'on that midnight train the libyan mig-21 dropped all four of its bombs on the us air station [tom] the heat-seeking missiles virtually disintegrated the plane (music)i'd rather live in his world (music) than live without him all remotes, stand by, please ah-choo! [blows nose] george, you ready? yeah should i cover everything or should i let tom ask me something? cover everything we're going to george say, "the joint chiefs are meeting we have george weln at the pentagon" to better monitor the situation george weln is at the pentagon and reports that the attack has triggered a massive movement of us military might a lot of alliteration from anxious anchors placed in powerful posts! [george] was this the work of a dissident pilot or was the pilot acting on instructions? we now have qaddafi on the screen it's aaron 2 looks soft yes? the pilot that shot down the libyan in 1981 is stationed right here tell tom the f-14 is extremely hard to fly and they're nicknamed tomcats thank you said qaddafi "this is not war" the f-14 is extremely difficult to master they're called tomcats isn't the f-14 tomcat extremely difficult for a pilot to master? in the seventies, the first craft had many crashes there was trouble with them in the seventies thank you, george i say it here, it comes out there jennifer? the white house is preparing all right, stand by, please [telephone rings] hi qaddafi doesn't foam at the mouth or anything when you speak to him he seems not at all nuts he seems like a leader good we're getting the '81 pilot nobody else will have him what's it like being executive producer? i got to go me, too got to go got to go we're very busy stand by, camera 1 center up we're going to remote 3 it's the gulf of sidra the us commander is nathan benchley in 1981, two libyan jets attacked two american f-14s - jane] they got an su-22 - flying over the gulf of sidra - today they got a mig-21, a better plane - qaddafi claimed that the gulf is part of libya's territorial waters both libyan jets were downed by the american fighters - he is nathan benchley - the commander of one of those planes nathan benchley, joins us commander, it must have been tougher shooting down the mig-21 you got an su-22 jane] what's it like at confrontation? what is a dogfight like? jane] after this, we'll do a wrap-up ask him how he knows when he has a hit do you know you have a hit from a screen inside your cockpit or can you see your missiles strike? that's good [benchley] the equipment is sophisticated but you like to see it to confirm it but you like to see it to confirm it it's considered an outlaw nation but some who have interviewed qaddafi find him, to use an american phrase very presidential nice, jane we'll go to martin klein then to the carrier pilot from the sidra... what! no! you missed him? there's only 10 minutes left! how can you talk to me about parking problems? no, not "you'll try"! do it, or i'll fry your fat ass! i had no idea she was this good tom tom fill for a second tom? go the latest message seems to indicate that the libyan pilot was acting on his own without authority from anyone else in other words, i think we're all ok who the hell cares what you think? the libyan government has disavowed prior knowledge of the attack i'm tom grunick reporting from washington good afternoon animation thanks, everybody we are out nice job, tom everybody on the floor, thank you so much good job, buddy hey thanks man! you're great never so proud of one of my decisions thank you, ernie jane, great work really you know? there were no major gaffes, anyway oh! no major gaffes ha ha! you were brilliant! josh, great stuff thank you congratulations, jane you guys were so good you guys! thanks, jane thanks, ernie you know, this was important for tom there's that bonding thing that happens i'm watching paul address the troops it's not the conventions anymore it's this kind of moment oh, hi wow! hey, mr. ice man! you were great you, too great job good work, tom thanks what a baptism, tom! congratulations with all this help, it's easier than local where's jane? she's back there can i help you? we're here to play the new news theme you're an amazing woman! what a feeling having you inside my head! yeah it was an unusual place to be it's, like, indescribable! you knew just when to feed me the next line you knew the second before i needed it there was a rhythm we got into it was like great sex! ha ha ha! you have to celebrate with me everybody's going to the bar down the street i'm going over to aaron's maybe i'll hook up with all of you later how long do you think you'll be there? it starts off with this very high-tech thing like this that's the news the strings take the melody (music) bah dah dah dah dah dah dah (music) (music) a-bom bom bom bom (music) al does the countermelody - big finish! - big finish! i got chills wasn't tom great? well, it worked it worked really? ha ha! it was good? your calling in that information... you are the classiest guy i know! here have a beer celebrate god it was so strange watching him what's next... lip-synching? ok, ok, ok i've been doing some of the most important thinking of my life today i wonder if i should tell you now whatever you think i figured out why i'm so hung up on getting a chance at weekend anchor if i do it well, they'll pay me more and they'll treat me better you may be on to something which means i'm at their mercy and who wants that? i won't tell you where this thought has led me why not? in the middle of this i started thinking about the one thing that makes me feel good and makes immediate sense and it's you oh, bubba i'm going to stop right now except i wish you were two people i'd tell the one who's my friend about the one that i like so much all right i'm... i'm... i'm not going to say any more primarily because i'm about to pass out i'll walk you to the corner you get some sleep right now? after i walk you to the corner come on, buddy you were stunning today you have someplace to go now, right? yeah, yeah good night good night well, i felt something hee hee hee! hey, we're going to cap's bar on 17th and vermont connecticut's clear on sunday, so take that over to 15th and then straight down vermont and we should bypass thomas circle that way if you don't go over 40, we'll catch mostly green lights we tried... i didn't think you'd make it i thought i'd see if all of you were still here i'll go join the gang the gang is gone we were the last ones oh well, i'll, uh... i'll go have a burger you want another burger? yeah hey, i know how to have a burger by myself i feel like a little solitude i sure know that feeling hey, terrific work today right back to you thanks good night good night ha ha! i feel great you sure i shouldn't get a taxi? what for? oh, i don't know why? you have the greatest car and the greatest driver in all of washington you look confused i'm not ohh ohh ha ha! oh give me some of that where's the bathroom? oh, through the closet wow! i'm so tired of defending my closet i always had a problem with space it was getting so i couldn't find anything so i converted a bedroom wait till you've been doing it for 16 years it's a great solution not only the storage but you can see everything you have do you do bunny rabbits? jennifer! isn't this a great date? [crying] good morning good morning yeah, we are god help me well, they've been looking at just about everything... foreign bureaus, domestic bureaus, all kinds of personnel, even equipment anyway, they seem to be very, very serious about making me cut 24 million from the budget now, this is going to mean massive firings uh l'm doing whatever i can but i did want you to be aware of this very serious situation now, we're going to also be covering the alaskan serial killer trial on a continuing basis i'd like it to be assigned out of washington we have to put someone on a plane to anchorage jane? who do you think george weln or jennifer? jennifer jennifer um jennifer hire the hoover group tomorrow good night, emily good night, jane come on i'll buy you a drink there's a big thing at the italian embassy i'm not sure i'd be good company tonight ahh, i'll be the judge of that i'll get my coat two, please tom? tom? [stumbles] ha ha ha! i'm all right heavy hitters yeah how are you doing? great network news, washington i love it what do you do when your real life exceeds your dreams? keep it to yourself you know, yesterday, i really wanted to know your reaction to how we did with the libyan report i was going to ask but i think i'm i'm a little intimidated with you stop it! you can't talk about feeling intimidated when you're on top of the world i'm not buying into that i have a load to learn... you have your job shut up ok pretty peppy party, isn't it, pal? i made one rule for myself when this started and i realized i would take a lot from you people because of being from sports and that rule was? never to pretend to know more than i did can you name all the members of the cabinet? ok, let's drop it i'm not taking a test for you if that came up in conversation... we're conversing the names of the cabinet have slipped my mind say, do you know them? ok, don't name them just tell me if you know yes, aaron, i know them ok all 12? yes! there's only 10 you're feeling good, aren't you? i'm starting to, yeah hey, we may do state capitals next 50, right? jane] hi there you are is this it? yes i am so exhausted punchy sick tired i can't think, and i can't move i'm just a dead lump of poured-out flesh would you like to come up? maybe we could just sit here, talk a little ok i'll have to do a whole story on my own eventually i have an idea for something what? if i tell you can you manage not to put it down or tell me why it won't work or is in bad journalistic taste? yes, tom, i think i can manage ok it's about women who are attacked by someone they know on a date ugh i'm sorry, i'm sorry i didn't mean it well, keep it that way wait a minute! i didn't say anything! stand i'm innocent before i'm... ooh! innocent you're guilty before you can be innocent door to door [telephone rings] [ring] [whistling] hello? jane? jane yes tom? tom, is that you? yes hey, you called me is it your story? no, um [clears throat] are you going to the correspondents' dinner? you need me for the story? no are you going? uh-huh maybe i get off work i'd like to go good we could go together so so, you like me, huh? i like you as much as i can like anyone who thinks i'm an asshole "street cops say" that fits was that last cut good for you, bobby? uh, yeah great thank you for asking thank you [tom] according to the fbi there were more than 87,000 rapes reported last year most people think of a rapist as a violent stranger but today, an attack may be what's called date rape... being forced to have sex with someone you know you want to find a nice guy so anyway, it was that, you know "give him a chance"thing hi - shh! - shh! - shh! i was lonely so we went to a movie and when he brought me home he asked for a beer and said he'd go so how do you say no to that? my cousin donna really? so first, um it was kind of like this wrestling match which was awful enough because it got very violent what is this? and i'm a modest person and he ripped my clothes off and he forced me to make love and then he stayed in my apartment and forced me more times oh i'm sorry i promised myself i wasn't going to cry um it's just this whole thing has just messed me up let's turn on the news come on! sex, tears, this must be the news sorry i'm in a pissy mood what's wrong with it? nothing you blew the lid off nooky - oh! - oh! the victims often remain too terrified to talk the police powerless to perform properly and all the welfare groups can do is monitor this epidemic of crime without punishment tom grunick, annandale, virginia malcolm west on trial for the murders of 15 men has led police to four nice work i got to get a crew off the clock what did you think? it moved me i did relate to it i really did it was unusual for you to cut to yourself when you teared up and that might not have been my choice but it was real, and it got me and i think a lot of the time i'm too conservative about that stuff ok? ok body count's now 19 the jury returns to the site tom, that was really swell tonight good four more bodies now taken from the frozen earth jennifer mack wodahamlet, alaska (music)eastern's got the right time how are you? hi i'm just writing you a note uh, what do you say we take a walk? outside? yeah come on i'm not suggesting the worst will happen it's just that somebody with your brilliance gets nibbles about other jobs now and again maybe down the road, you should look into it oh, damn those fucking jerks they want to fire me all i know is they got to fire a large number of people ahh they're not even going by seniority there's a recklessness in the air do one thing for me get me one shot at anchoring the weekend news it could turn it around for me i could do that this saturday everybody wants off for the correspondents' dinner do it, then please, prepare carefully this couldn't happen at a better time prepare what? you have saturday's news handy? it's a long while since you've read the news i'll have somebody work with you just on superficial performance things ok i think i better be alone for a while i understand i'll go with you thanks this is very uncomfortable for me because, and i don't mean this as a knock but we approach these things so differently we sure do and i don't mean that as a knock, either ok, go ahead i'll just tell you what i think you can disregard it if you want i don't know how effective this will be because of our different approaches ok reports tonight... wait your coat jacket is rising up in back ok when you sit, sit on your jacket that will give you a good line reports tonight... look at the monitor ok reports tonight from far down on the arabian peninsula indicate that heavy fighting... your jacket, aaron what are you doing? don't touch me sit on it but just don't handle me i'm sitting on it! look fantastic tip! that's great continues for a second day between government and rebel forces in pro-soviet... no don't let your eyes move from the beginning to end you don't want to look shifty, do you? no the right side of your face is the good one they'll let me do the news like this? heavy fighting continues for... try to punch one word or phrase in every sentence one idea per story punch you were smoking there toward the end the pointers were great i'll study the tape remember you're not just reading the news you're narrating it you're selling them this idea of you you're saying, "trust me i'm credible" so when you feel yourself just reading stop! and start selling a little ok so long [doorbell rings] [ring] you look like this porcelain thing you look beautiful you look beautiful that's gorgeous! what's that? i spilled rum on my jacket help me pick something out ok i'm thinking the gray suit [dials] tom, why don't i meet you there? i got some stuff to take care of did you rent the tux or buy it? i knew it how much? wow! ok, i'll see you there you're going with him? don't wear that shirt no, blue let me look at the gray not bad, right? looks nice so help me pick a tie ok you brought all of them how much was the tux? 1,140 bucks no yeah try this one not bad i read about it in a magazine that way you don't put on too much could you at least pretend it's awkward me showing up while you're getting ready for this date? it's not a date! it's coworkers going to a professional conclave i hate missing it i wish i could be there me, too if it gets dull before 11:00 you'll drop by the studio i'm not sure i can i'll have the tape i'll wait for you afterwards at my house ok, great good luck thanks have a good time tonight you, too the marriott what is it? what's the matter? what are you doing? oh, no my little tailor! you were all wrinkled and schmutzy i've got shoulders good? thanks maybe i'll just stand here and guard your corner i'll be here when you get back don't take connecticut go taxi! i want you to go all right i'm going to go get a cellular hey, nick read this over see what you think sure aaron hey, george what are you doing here? anchoring the weekend news i'm going to anchor it hey! way to go this is terrific this is a pleasure to read, really is there water on the set? yeah, sure you'll be fine yes, i know what you mean the la times is a great outfit best severance pay in the business he was lecturing me i said, "i refuse to look at it as a negative i'm young my news appeals to people my age" he just hired a 26-year-old producer no kidding? 26? well, hello, tom he moves and smiles and moves and smiles if he doesn't see me soon we're not supposed to be together it's for me? hi, jane hey, arlene it's incredible who's here! who? me that's an outlaw dress thank you yes! whoo! ok, 20 seconds to air 15 seconds [music plays] 10 seconds cue graphic the weekend report with aaron altman go, aaron good evening in mood and language better suited to an espionage novel than the delicate world of the western alliance the british foreign secretary today pounced on what he termed the nest of professional spies and amateur traitors who are turning nato headquarters into an instrument whose only true function is folly we begin our coverage with edward towne in london take it the british she's coming in now 20 seconds for denouncing breaches of security any breach of security gee whiz! i think i'm starting to perspire a little involving nato military deployment was passed on are you seeing this? the information was apparently delivered in coded messages written on paper bags from the nato cafeteria six cafeteria workers five seconds! edward towne, london the sub bases referred to are located in five countries... norway, belgium, the netherlands spain, and great britain this is more than nixon ever sweated our own state department was rocked not only by the revelation but from the highly unusual persistence of the state press corps nice touch martin klein reports on the ruckus at foggy bottom just how noticeable is this? huh? do you have a bigger one? hurry! 10 seconds will severely limit nato's ability [hair dryer] five seconds! everything's fine, aaron [crash] a bomb exploded on a railroad bridge outside of madras, india, sending a passenger train you've got your hands in you've got your hands in! your hand! get your hand out! your hand! you know, he wrote some beautiful stuff 120 people were reported injured at least 22 people dead commercial i wish i were one of them remember brinkley's great line? "it's as irrevocable as a haircut" can i check your purse? i got some decent stuff at yard sales i like those can i have your autograph for my wife? how are you doing, paul? tom you're finally learning to be flexible glad you've changed your mind about tom ma'am, can i check your purse? i'd like to know what the contents are myself sir, may i see that briefcase? i'd like to check the contents could i see your purse? we got to go i'm sorry what? ioh! you ok? great i'm so sorry i pulled you away from that dinner those things can be a lot of fun everybody tries to be funny all of a sudden, there's these people trying to make political careers out of how many laughs they get why can't i let go of this woman? well at least kiss me when you do that you just can't stop editing me, huh? this is hysterical i was half hoping i wouldn't have a good time tonight know why? because you're nuts? right isn't she fun to tease? ohh what? more and more lately when i've been watching you in action and seeing you and all your energy i've been wondering what it'd be like to be inside all that energy me, too i don't remember ever saying anything like that exactly i don't know why i just did wait a minute i can think of two reasons i just thought of another if you talk about it, you don't have to do it that's not it you're trying to make it all about sex or it's that great feeling that you don't want to hold anything back you know, intimacy oh, shit what? i promised aaron i'd stop by and see how he did i'll go along no! i'll be back at your place as soon as i can jane! what happened? don't run off like everything's settled the minute you make up your mind he can talk more freely if i go alone it's just that i'd like you to give me a minute so i can catch up ok sorry don't yell at me like that again you scared the life out of me [doorbell buzzes] [buzz] it's open! i was in the shower how'd it go? you didn't talk to anybody? no then it went very well really? define your terms do you feel good about it? no do others feel you did well? no what was good? i lost 6 pounds aaron, will you tell me? it was great! there i was, writing my first-rate copy sitting on my jacket, punching my one thought except i had this historic attack of flop sweat i'll never anchor again, ever i lost one of your shoulder pads i think it drowned what do you mean, flop sweat? i bet you were the only one who knew people phoned in stop kidding! i'm not! there were complaining calls because you were sweating? nice ones worried i was having a heart attack if all that happened how come you're so chipper? i don't know i don't know at some point, it was so bad, it just got funny my central nervous system was telling me something sweat pouring down my face makeup falling into my eyes people turning on this fusillade of blow dryers... all so i could read introductions to other people covering the stories which is what i like to do anyway and i'm chipper because you finally showed up i'm going to cook for us tequila and eggs sound good? i have to be someplace now? i told what's his name... tom... that i'd meet him call him up it can wait, right? i don't know i i may be in love with him i knew it get out of my house now get out i'm not kidding! get out of here! you go to hell! come back here come on don't go this is important to me! i think it's important for you, too come on sit down sit down what is this? i'll take it what? give me one minute, please! this is tough ah! jane ok, let's take the part that has nothing to do with me let me just be your most trusted friend now the one that gets to say all the awful stuff, ok? i guess yes you can't end up with tom because it totally goes against everything that you're about yeah being a basket case i know you care about him i've never seen you like this with anybody so don't get me wrong when i tell you that tom while being a very nice guy is the devil this isn't friendship you're crazy, you know that? what do you think the devil would look like? a guy with a pointy tail? what will he sound like? "aah! aah!" no i'm semi-serious here you're serious... he will be attractive, nice and helpful he'll work where he influences a great god-fearing nation he'll never do an evil thing or hurt a living thing he'll just bit by little bit lower our standards where they're important just coax along, flash over substance just a tiny little bit and he'll talk about all of us really being salesmen and he'll get all the great women hey, aaron! i think you're the devil! you know i'm not! how? because i think we have the kind of friendship where if i were the devil you'd be the only one i'd tell! you ran after tom's help... yes! if things had gone well tonight i probably wouldn't say this i grant you everything, but give me this he personifies everything that you've been fighting against and i'm in love with you how do you like that? i buried the lead i've got to not say that out loud it takes too much out of me i never fought for anyone before does anybody win one of these things? [telephone rings] [ring] hello hi hi where are you? l... i can't get away just yet i'm at aaron's oh, well, when? i'm not sure it seems like he had a mishap on the news i know i taped it it wasn't as bad as he thinks, was it? it wasn't unprecedented or anything not if you count singing in the rain don't treat it like a tragedy want me to talk to him? uh-uh he says you could hardly notice it um um let me talk to him don't say anything about anything let me talk to him hi hi sorry to keep jane i didn't realize you'd be going this late i'll put her back on thank you hi again i'm sorry about this look don't worry that sounds more important let's... let's forget about tonight i don't know if that's absolutely necessary i have my father coming through tomorrow i should get some sleep uh-huh i'll see you at the office good night hello? yes? ok good night good night? jane i am not some chore you have to finish so you can stay on schedule ok, grunick easy shots now good night [hangs up phone] he just canceled he had a chance to think and he canceled i can't... i can't breathe [gasping] damn it! over a guy! well, jane, thanks for stopping by good night [door closes] he's on assignment right now hi i kept trying to call you you never called me! were you just diddling me? when i'm a woman i get fucked around by you? jane, this is my dad i'm very pleased to meet you, sir please forgive what i said sorry just light up a room and leave, huh? you want my opinion? what's easy to miss about jane... you want my opinion? yes, i would the way she just acted is not the way an affectionate person acts yes, it would be my pleasure rorish when do you start telling people? almost immediately, bill i'd like to take everybody out after the show fantastic hello, donny bill, what a surprise hi, mr. rorish bill, this is hard on all of us it's no time for compliments but i think it's extraordinary of you to come down here for this if we're not here during the tough times we're not a news organization bill! welcome back to washington bill thank you thank you thank you i forget is she on the list? this is a brutal layoff and all because they couldn't program wednesday nights you can make it less brutal by knocking a million or so off your salary a bad joke i'm sorry awful it's a miserable day that was just some kind of sick joke defense mechanism it just doesn't indicate any of my feelings not one it just shows the kind of stress this represents for all of us no excuse for it, though bill tom it's about time good to see you i feel terrible about what happened what did he say? he said, um that he liked you because you looked like you had fire and honesty no did he really? yes what? come here come here uh paul canned me well, my brother will feel great now he's not the only screw-up tom, paul wants to see you bob, i just found out sons of bitches! ernie, they're calling from work tell them i'm on my way in it's paul he'll just be a minute i hate this so much you know, i'm just old enough to be flattered by the term "early retirement" that's wonderful what a lovely line now, if there's anything i can do for you... i certainly hope you'll die soon tom this is a severe cutback, tom 27 people in this bureau alone including technical personnel we're going to reorganize at the same time we're dropping you from washington and assigning you to london you knew they were going to offer me this before i went in there i can't stand this! we care for each other too much to be dishonest i'm leaving no matter who they replace me with they were making me leave anyway the fact that it's you takes some of the sting out of it and i don't think you're any better than i am goddamn! no, i'm not! are you out of your mind? have you guys seen jane? she's back there getting my job the first woman bureau chief we've ever had here what happened to you? they booted me out of washington impossible! there isn't a system in the world that wouldn't value one of us what did they do to you? it's what he did i'm proud of him they told me they'd keep me because they could plug me into any story and my salary was in line so i quit jane, i got to tell you something yeah? except for socially you're my role model hope i can get him back you packing up tonight? mm-hmm i'm sorry they're sending you down i'm sure you'll make it back where are they sending you? london london? yeah that's a promotion i don't think so yes! that's where they sent rorish before they made him anchor i can't believe you! they're grooming you for it all! you don't even know it! keep it down, will you? let me ask you something you had one camera crew on that daybreak piece? yeah sticking around for the farewell party? no, it won't be much fun watching martin klein and ernie turn in their credentials to the security guard hi, hank can i speak with my wife? no message i'll see her at home this is one story they're not going to cover if the network doesn't cover it it's not important, so why worry? i'm going to miss you you're a prick in a great way ha ha ha! you know what i mean i like the way it made me sound ok be good we'll figure out who's hiring, ok? nobody knows what they'll do now it's not fair, donny thank you, jane good luck oh, sorry you know, what i always wanted to tell you is that jane, martin would like to see you if you get a chance this is the third cutback in four years these people it's all so awful it just hurts physically, doesn't it? like something's wrong with your bones like your organs are shifting inside your body maybe i haven't been here long enough hey, congratulations on the promotion congratulations? how can you say that to me? i'm sorry i can't stand here feeling bad because i don't feel worse this has happened at every station i've ever been to do they owe you any time off? 14 weeks i think it's crazy for you to come here tomorrow and start a new job i have a week before i have to get to my new job let's get the hell away to some island fast and and find out how we are together away from this well i just think that's an extraordinary proposal that's yes? that's more than yes that's "you bet" [ring] hello bastard! sneak! quitter! speaking i just found out you didn't say anything to me will you meet me? no, i can't maybe next week no i'm going away tomorrow i'll meet you at the place near the thing ok anyway, my agent says he has a very hot prospect... the number two station in portland they want to be as good as the networks personally, i think he should aim higher tell me the god's honest truth are you leaving because of me? ernie said you're lucky if you get out while you can still cry i should have quit three years ago you're just trying to say great stuff so i'll feel even worse that you're not around let's go i just want to s-sit here i mean, the feeling to stay here is powerful why is that? maybe the best part of your life is over and you don't want to start the bad part you are now required to sit here with me! come on! be smart for a second what do you think will happen to us? what will happen? that's very easy five, six years from now i'll be back to collect an award representing the surge in foreign coverage by local stations what will they call the award? the euchy yes anyway, i'll be walking with my wife and children we'll bump into you my son will say something and i will say, "it's not nice to make fun of single fat ladies" you won't be able to stay mad at me, right? i hope so no, i'm not really mad i'll miss you, we'll talk we'll always be friends we'll get hot for each other and we'll never act on it ok? i got to go jane? you know how tom had tears in his eyes in that interview with that girl? ask yourself how we were able to see that when he only had one camera and it was pointed at the girl during the entire interview i'm fairly sure i was right to tell you it was just this whole thing has just messed me up maybe more than it should have i'm sorry are you ok? yes, i'm sorry don't be silly what are you sorry about? i just went oh, we just need a... we just need a minute more of your time so he can shoot from behind you toward me, and, uh we'll have some place to go when we cut i sit here, i nod my head and i look nerdy tom, that kills me we didn't get you on camera so powerful... seeing your reaction i thought you were going to cry yourself that would have been something give me a minute fuckin'... oh, it's amazing [click] pardon me, please where would we catch a bus to washington? turn right thank you very much see? i told you look who's the organized one i got everything! i'm not going [sighs] why? i saw the taped outtakes of the interview with the girl i know you... acted your reaction after the interview it's verboten, huh? i thought since i almost did it the first time, but but i get you that's not the reason you're not coming of course it's the reason it's terrible come with me we'll disagree and get a tan at the same time if you're going to be glib i'm going to lose it! jane, keep it down i was up all night, and jane it made me ill that's better you could get fired for that i got promoted for that working up tears for a news piece cutaway? you crossed the line... it's hard not to they keep moving the little sucker! it... it proves that the differences we... this is a one-way argument we have six days if we fight, we'll come home if you don't go i leave for london after that so it would be a very big deal... the plane is boarding you're good at deadlines here's your ticket it's amazing you commit this breach of ethics then you act as if... i'm giving you a hard time about nothing! try and get this! when you edited that piece... i'm leaving now gate e-2 good morning! good morning dupont circle, please don't take the beltway because at this time of day there's going to be a... go any way you want but new york avenue's faster when they told me bill had decided to retire and offered me the evening news i thought it was the same kind of joke we used to pull at the station... turning someone's prompter off in the middle of a show [laughter] but when they heard my reaction they thought i was kidding i told them i'd be their anchor but i didn't want to be the managing editor that there were people better qualified than i to control the content and if there weren't, we were all in trouble [laughter] now to something more important i'd like to introduce my fiancée lila? oh, aaron! congratulations lila, lila lila, this is aaron altman hi this kid couldn't possibly belong to anyone else! what's your name? clifford do you know who this is? the big joke? ha ha ooh i don't know you know, jane’s down here i'm taking cliff to see her can i come along? yeah i'll meet you back at the place? ok? yes we'll call mommy later your speech was magnificent oh, i forgot to say something about the speech i appreciate that tom, we are proud of you thanks hey, guys! come over here! hey hey, what is this? my life is rushing in front of my eyes! clifford, come over here! i want to show you something! clifford, come on! i want to show you something picnic? i thought for old cliff here but who knew about this? it'll be great, though did you get in last night? yeah extreme culture shock you are more adorable than your pictures look at you! look what i got for you, cliff - whoa! - whoa! that's terrific! let me see it, cliff come here are you any closer to a decision? i think so aaron, they've been talking to me about being managing editor really? whoo! i'm going to take it oh, that is... jane, what a job! a great surprise! i didn't think we had a chance they told me you wanted to stay in washington well, there's a guy but he says he'll fly up a lot well, we should talk do you have time for dinner? i'd like you to meet lila i was really looking forward to that i'm going to go back in a few hours it's so good to see you it's nice to see you congratulations, on the history's longest winning streak if you ever get restless in portland let me know why? ok bye boss hey, cliff! where are you going? cliff! go back to your father come on, cliff! come on daddy so who's the guy? uh, well, we met about... three months ago he works at the surgeon general's office he loves boating so, he's been getting me into waterskiing ha ha ha! i like it! so what about you lately? well my wife got this new job great [singing l 'edition speciale] [aaron singing along] it starts off with this very high-tech thing like this that's the news the strings take the melody (music) bah dah dah dah dah dah dah (music) al does the countermelody - big finish! - big finish! {{{ the end }}}