sometimes, doctor lecter and i would talk when things got quiet enough about the science courses i was takin' and... mail order courses in psychology? - no, sir. i don't consider psychology a science. and neither did doctor lecter. now, barney, while you were working at the asylum, you observed clarice starling and hannibal lecter... interacting. - eh, interacting? talking to one another. - yes... yes, it seemed to me that they... - i can see you're eager to justify your consulting fee, but why don't we start with what you saw not what you thought about what you saw. - oh, cordell, don't be like that. barney can give us his opinion. barney, give us your opinion of what you saw. what was it between them? well, most of the time, doctor lecter didn't respond at all to visitors. he'd just, for instance, open his eyes long enough to insult some academic who was there to look over him. with starling, he answered her questions. she interested him. uh... she intrigued him. he thought she was charming and amusing. mm-hm. so clarice starling and hannibal lecter became friendly. - well, in a kind of formal structure, yes. - and he was fond of her. yes. thank you, barney. thank you very much for your candor. and keep all those wonderful items from your personal lecter treasure trove coming. i've enjoyed them immensely. mr. verger. - oh, i almost forgot. i might be able to get a cookie down. what do you think, cordell? i think it would kill you. how much? - two hundred and fifty. thousand. cordell, cut a check for 250,000 dollars. how can she sleep at a time like this? she's on a jump-out squad all night. she's saving her strength. pay attention. here's the layout. - i'm officer bolton, d.c. police. yes, i can see that from your badge. - i'm in charge here. officer bolton, i'm special agent starling, and just so we don't get off on the wrong foot, let me explain why we're all here. i'm here because i know evelda drumgo. i've arrested her twice on rico warrants. d.e.a. and a.t.f., are here for the drugs and the weapons. you're here because our mayor wants to appear tough on drugs especially after his own cocaine conviction, and hopes he can accomplish that by having you join us here today. - you got a smart mouth, lady. if you wouldn't mind, i'd appreciate it if you'd let me continue, officer. all right, take a look. fish market backs on the water. across the street, ground floor is the meth lab. drumgo's h.i.v. positive, she will spit and bite if she's cornered, so you should watch it. and if you the one who puts her in a patrol car you don't want to push her head down. she'll likely have a needle in her hair. we want to take her inside the building, not out in the street. we can get closest with the van. if it looks good, we hit the front, d.e.a. hits the back, d.c.p.d. backin' them up. she'll have her watchers out at least three blocks around. they've tipped her before in time, so let's not make spectacles of ourselves. pretty busy today. - i agree. can i please get a cup of coffee? did you see that? that's a roger. goddamn it, it's her. with three guys. they're all packin'. she's carryin' something. she's got a baby. hey, brigham it's too crowded. there are too many people. i say we call it off. what do you say? i agree. all units stand down. whiskey team copies. - burke copy. this is bolton. stay on target. - i said all units stand down. now. it's too late. we're movin' in. - bolton, he said it's off. stand down. she's carrying a baby. i repeat, she's carrying a baby. all units stand down. keep that gun down, bolton. bolton! son of a bitch! it's a go. f.b.i.! hold it! hold your fire! don't! evelda, get out of the car! starling, is that you? step away from the car! show me your hands. evelda. please. show me your hands. - how've you been? don't do this. - do what? it's all right. it's okay. i know, i know, baby, i know. it's okay. it's okay. it's okay, baby. i know, it's okay. it's okay. friends, family, co-workers gathered here this morning at arlington to bury b.a.t. f. agent john brigham, shot and killed in the line of duty friday. he was 40 years old. this ill-fated drug raid that claimed his life and 5 others is the latest in a seemingly endless series of incidents, beginning with waco, texas, in which the justice department and the f.b.i. have been questioned about their use of firepower rather than judgement. this time it was f.b.i. special agent clarice starling heading up the calamitous strike force. she attained some measure of celebrity 10 years ago, when she was given information by dr. hannibal "the cannibal" lecter, which led to the rescue of catherine martin. however, when she returns to work later this week, she won't be so celebrated. attorney telford higgins, representing one of the families of those slain, says he will file... cordell! cordell. - yes, sir. get me the justice department. agent starling, this is john eldridge from d.e.a. assistant director noonan, of course, you know. larkin wayne from our office of internal affairs. bob sneed, a.t.f., benny holcombe, assistant to the mayor. and paul krendler. you know paul. paul's come over from justice unofficially, as a favor to us. in other words, he's here and he's not here. - so i take it you've seen the coverage in the papers and on television? - i have nothing to do with the news. the woman had a baby in her arms. there are pictures. you could see the problem, i'd think. - not in her arms. in a carrier across her chest. in her arms was a mac-10. - look, we're here to help you. it's gonna be a hell of a lot harder to do with a combative attitude. can i speak freely, mr. pearsall? your agency called this office to get me assigned to help you on this raid. i tried to do that. i clearly expressed my judgement and was ignored, and now a good agent and a friend is dead. you shot and killed 5 people out there, agent starling. is that how you define good judgement? - this raid was an ugly mess. i ended up in a position where i had a choice of dying or shooting a woman carrying a child. i chose. i shot her. i killed a mother holding her child. i regret it. i resent myself for it. - all right, gentlemen, i'm going to call a halt to this meeting and get back to you individually by phone. well that was a waste of time. you have a secret admirer, starling. he isn't much to look at, but he does have friends in high places. remember mason verger? lecter's fourth victim. the rich one. the only one that survived. he says he has some new information on lecter. he'll only share it with you. only me? you want it seize it. - we'd rather not. i wasn't speaking to you, krendler. when i speak to you, i'll look at you. why would we rather not? - the last time he called was when we took lecter off the 10 most wanted list. he was upset about that. we said, "hey, that's life." he said, "hey, this is a senate oversight committee to make your life miserable." his family's political contributions may not be enough to buy a senator, but they are enough to rent them from time to time. there's no reason to go through that again if he really does have something new. it's a good deal for you, starling. you can't pretend it isn't. you get to go back on a celebrated case. i'll take care of the media for your drumgo killing. everyone’s gonna be happy. - i'm not happy. well, maybe you're incapable of being happy. mr. krendler, when you're out on the street, you know you might take a bullet in the line of duty. you accept it or you get out. you live with it. what you don't expect, or accept, is taking one in the back in your boss's office for doing your job exactly as they've taught you. that makes you unhappy. of course you're right, starling. but it doesn't really change anything. it changes everything. it changes me. miss starling. i'm cordell doemling, mr. verger's private physician. how do you do? - please park down at the end. one's eyes adjust to the darkness. mr. verger, agent starling is here. - good morning, mr. verger. was that a mustang i heard out there? - yes, it was. five-liter? - yes. fast. cordell, i think you can leave us now. i... thought i might stay. perhaps i could be useful. you could be useful seeing about my lunch. i'd like to attach this microphone to your clothing or your pillow. oh, by all means. oh, here, this should make it easier. you know, i thank god for what happened. it was my salvation. have you accepted jesus, agent starling? do you have faith? i was raised lutheran. - that's not what i asked. this is special agent starling, 5-1-4-3-6-9-0, deposing mason verger on march 20, sworn and attested. mr. verger... we can get to that later. i just... - no, we can get it to now. you see it all comes to bear. it was a christian camp my father founded for poor, unfortunate, cast-off little boys and girls who would do anything for a candy bar. mr. verger, i don't need to know about the sex offenses. i just... oh, it's all right. i have immunity from the u.s. attorney, and i have immunity from the risen jesus. and nobody beats the riz. - had you ever seen dr. lecter before you assigned to him for therapy? - what do you mean? socially? that is what i mean, yes, if you don't mind talking about it. oh, no, not at all. i'm not ashamed. - i didn't say you should be. no, we met conventionally. as doctor and patient. how did he end up at your house? - i invited him, of course. to my pied-a-terre. i came to the door in my nicest fit. i was concerned he'd be afraid of me. but he didn't seem to be. "afraid of me." that's almost funny now. i showed him my toys, my noose set-up among other things. it's where you sort of hang yourself but not really. it feels good while you are... well, you know. anyway, he said, "mason, would you like a popper?" and i said, "would i?" and, wow, once that kicked in... i was flying. he said, "mason, show me how you smile to gain the confidence of a child." when i smiled he said, "oh, i see how you do it." the good doctor approached me with a piece of broken mirror. try this. try peeling off your face and feeding it to the dogs. try again. no, i can still see it. no, i'm afraid not. "that's entertainment!" well, it seemed like a good idea at the time. mr. verger, you indicated to me that you'd received new information. cordell! where did this come from? - buenos aires. i received it two weeks ago. where is the package it came in? - good question. there was nothing written on it of interest. cordell, did we throw it out? yes, i'm afraid we did. - oh, dear. you think it'll help? i hope so. i hope it'll help you catch him to help cleanse the stigma of your recent dishonor. thank you. i think that's all i need. - did you find some rapport with doctor lecter in your talks at the asylum? i know i did while i was peeling. - we exchanged infos in a civil way. but always through the glass. - yes. isn't it funny? - what's that? you can look at my face but you shied when i said the name of god. finding what you want? - are you sure this is all of it? that's all there is now. it was more, but it's been picked over the years. you know, this stuff's worth a lot of money in certain circles. it's kind of like the cocaine that disappears around here time by time. hey, barney. remember me? would you agree for the record, agent starling i've not been read my rights? i have not mirandized barney. he is unaware of his rights. so when you turned him over to the... - they weren't civil to him. and they're all dead now. - they survived his company 3 days. you survived him 6 years at the asylum. how'd you do that? it wasn't just being civil. - yes, it was. did you ever think after he escaped he might come after you? no. he once told me that, whenever feasible, he preferred to eat rude. free-range rude, he called 'em. what about you? you ever think he might come after you? oh... you ever think about him at all? oh, at least 30 seconds of every day. i can't help it. he's always with me, like a bad habit. do you, do you know what happened to his stuff? his books, papers, drawings and... everything got thrown away when the place closed. oh, cutbacks. barney, i just found out that doctor lecter's signed copy of "the joy of cooking" sold to a private collector for 16.000 dollars. whew! it was probably a fake. - the seller's affidavit of ownership was signed karen phlox. do you know karen phlox? you should. she filled out your employment application, only at the bottom she signed it barney. the same thing on your tax returns. you want the book? maybe i can get it back. i want the x-ray they shot after you broke lecter's arm during the attack on that nurse. and everything else you got. we used to talk about a lot of things at night. after the screamin’ finally died down. we talked about you sometimes. you want to know what he said? go get the x-ray. i'm not a bad guy. - i didn't say you were. doctor chilton was a bad guy. after your first visit, he started taping your conversations with doctor lecter. these are valuable. go on now. you've grieved long enough. and what'd he say? what'd he say about me late at night? well, he was talkin’ about inherited, hardwired behavior. he was using genetics in the roller pigeons as an example. they fly way up in the air, roll over backwards in a display, fallin' toward the ground. there are shallow rollers and there are deep rollers. but you can't breed 2 deep rollers or their young, their offspring, will roll all the way down, hit and die. agent starling is a deep roller, barney. let us hope one of her parents was not. surely, the odd confluence of events hasn't escaped you, clarice. jack crawford dangles you in front of me, then i give you a bit of help. do you think it's because i like to look at you and imagine how good you would taste, clarice? (clarice) i don't know. is it? (lecter) i've been in this room for 8 years now. i know they will never, ever let me out while i'm alive. what i want is a view. i want a window where i can see a tree or even water. i want to be in a federal institution. the capponi correspondence goes back to the thirteenth century. doctor fell might hold in his hand, his non italian hand, a note from dante alighieri himself but would he recognize it? i think not. gentlemen, you have examined him in medieval italian, and i will not deny that his language is admirable for a straniero, but is he acquainted with the personalities of the pre-renaissance firenze? i think not. what if he came upon a note in the capponi library, say, from guido de cavalcanti? would he recognize that? i think not. they're still arguing. sogliato wants the job for his nephew. but the scholars seem satisfied with the temporary guy they appointed. - mm. if he's such an expert on dante, let him lecture on dante to the studiolo. let him face them if he can. - i look forward to it. let's set a date. - very well. on the fourteenth. doctor fell? chief inspector rinaldo pazzi of the questura. commendatore. how can i be of service? i'm sorry. i'm investigating the disappearance of your predecessor, signore de bonaventura. i was... - predecessor implies i have the job. unfortunately, i don't. not yet. though i am hopeful. they are letting me look after the library. for a stipend. hm. uh, the officers who first checked didn't find any sort of farewell or suicide note. eh, i was wondering if you... if i happen to come across anything in the capponi library stuffed in a drawer or book, i'll call you at once. - thank you. you've been reassigned. pardon? - you were on the il mostro case. yes, that's right. - now you're on this. this is much less grand a case, i would think. - well, if i thought of my work in those terms, yes, i guess i'd agree. - a missing person. sorry? - were you unfairly dismissed from the grander case or did you deserve it? regarding this one, doctor fell are the signore's personal effects still at the palazzo? - mm-hm. packed neatly in 4 cases with an inventory. alas no note. mmh. well, i'll send someone over to pick them up. thank you. hey, thanks. how's it goin'? any leads? - yeah, they're all leads. they just don't lead to him. how do you live with this stuff. - oh, god. this is from the guinness book of world records, congratulating me on being "the female f.b.i. agent who has shot and killed the most people." geoffrey, would you excuse me, please? sure. dear clarice: i have followed with enthusiasm the course of your disgrace and public shaming. my own never bothered me, except for the inconvenience of being incarcerated. but you may lack perspective. in our discussions down in the dungeon, it was apparent to me that your father, the dead night watchman, figures largely in your value system. to end james gumb's career as a couturier pleased you most because you could imagine your father being pleased. but now, alas, you're in bad odor with the f.b.i. do you imagine your daddy being shamed by your disgrace? do you see him in his plain pine box, crushed by your failure? the sorry, petty end of a promising career? what is worst about this humiliation, clarice? is it how your failure will reflect on your mommy and daddy? is your worst fear that people will now and forever believe they were indeed just good old trailer camp, tornado-bait, white trash? and that perhaps you are, too? hm? by the way, i couldn't help noticing on the f.b.i.'s rather dull public web site that i have been hoisted from the bureau's archives of the common criminal and elevated to the more prestigious ten most wanted list. is this coincidence, or are you back on the case? if so, goody goody, 'cause i need to come out of retirement and return to public life. i imagine you sitting in a dark basement room, bent over papers and computer screens. is that accurate? please tell me truly, special agent starling. regards, your old pal, hannibal lecter, m. d. p.s. clearly this new assignment is not your choice. rather, i suppose, it is part of the bargain. but you accepted it, clarice. your job is to craft my doom. so i am not sure how well i should wish you, but i'm sure we'll have a lot of fun. ta-ta. h. on the letter there's one partial fingerprint, here. not enough... well, i know it's him. where he was when he wrote it is what i need. well, the paper isn't gonna help. and, yes, it's linen fiber, yes, it's on the expensive side but, no, it isn't so rare that you're not gonna be able to find it in a 1000 stationery stores throughout the world. same with the ink. and the same with the wax. and your las vegas postmark, well you can check it out, but i'll bet a buck it came from a remailing service. no. it would be the last place he'd be. an assault on his sense of taste. don't you feel eyes moving over your body, clarice? i hardly see how you couldn't. and don't your eyes move over the things you want? - all right, then tell me how... no. it's your turn to tell me. you don't have any more vacations to sell. quid pro quo, clarice. i tell you things, you tell me things. not about this case. about yourself. quid pro quo. yes or no, clarice? hand cream. raw ambergris base. tennessee lavender. trace of something else. fleece. lovely. - what's ambergris? ambergris is a whale product. alas, much as we'd like to, we'd can't import it. endangered species act. where isn't it illegal? - japan, of course. couple of places in europe. you'd almost certainly find it somewhere in paris, rome, amsterdam. maybe london. - this bouquet was hand engineered to someone's specifications. - is there any way of knowing where? of course. we'll give you a list. it'll be short i need opera tickets. - i don't think i got any on me. it's sold out, whatever it's called. it's the pretty young wife with the ever-open break who needs tickets. benetti. - what? rewind it. - i can't rewind it. i'm making a copy. what is this? - security camera from a perfume-shop on via della scala. f.b.i. through interpol requested a copy. why? - they didn't say. they didn't say? - no. it was actually kind of weird, like they were making a point not to say. are we going to the opera? - yes. sorry. yes, we are going. - you got tickets. no, but i will. in fact, i was just about to look here. please not the back row. i would like to see it this time. nowhere near the back row. no matter what the cost. hannibal lecter tell me, clarice, would you want to harm those who have forced you to consider it, though? it's perfectly okay to feel this. it's perfectly au naturel to want to taste the enemy. it just feels so good. tell me clarice, what is your worst memory of childhood? - jesus, starling! can i help you, mr. krendler? - what you doing there in the dark? thinkin' about cannibalism. - people in justice are thinking, too. they're thinking, what is she doing? - aren't you curious why he dines on his victims? what's the point? are you writing a book or you catching a crook? - to show his contempt for those who exasperate him. or sometimes to perform a public service. in the case of the flutist, benjamin raspail, he did it to improve the sound of the baltimore philharmonic orchestra, serving the flute player's sweetbreads to the board with a nice montrachet at seven hundred dollars a bottle. that meal began with green oysters from the gironde, followed by the sweetbreads, a sorbet, and then you can read here in gourmet cuisine: a notable dark and glossy ragout, the constituents never determined. i always figured him for a queer. - why would you say that, paul? well, all this artsy-fartsy stuff. chamber music, tea party food. not that i mean anything personal if you've got a lot of sympathy. what i came here to impress upon you, starling, is i better see cooperation. there are no little fiefdoms here. i want to be copied on every 302! mm-hm. - if you work with me, then your so-called career here might improve. if you don't, then all i have to do is draw a line through your name rather than under it and it's over. paul, what is it with you? i told you to go home to your wife. that was wrong? - don't flatter yourself, starling. that was a long time ago. why would i hold that against you? hm? and besides this town is full of corn-pone country pussy. that said i wouldn't mind having a go with you right now, if you want to reconsider. - in the gym, anytime. no pads. is it went out with the regular mail? - no, i overnighted it to you. i filled out the slip myself. this was the day after your request. i don't understand what happened. i think you should have it by now. i don't. can you send me another one? - sure. i will make another copy. agent clarice? is that right? can i call you clarice? uh, agent starling. i'd appreciate it. uh, what's your name? oh, my name is franco benetti. - thank you very much, agent benetti. okay. so i'll send you tomorrow? - all right. bye-bye. nothin', huh? - oh, nothin' yet. still waitin' on florence and london. (operator) the number you have dialed is not in service at this time. yes? hello? - i have information about lecter. have you shared your information with the police, sir? i'm required to encourage you to do so. - uh-huh. is the reward payable under special circumstances? may i suggest you contact an attorney before taking any possibly illegal action? there's one in geneva who is excellent in these matters. may i give you his toll-free number? the number is: hello. - i was just speaking with someone... there's a one hundred thousand dollar advance. to qualify for the advance, a fingerprint must be provided, in situ, on an object. once the print has been positively, the money will be placed in escrow at geneve credit suisse and may be viewed at any time subject to 24 hour prior notification. to repeat the message in french, press two. in spanish press three. in german... buon giorno. doctor fell? it's inspector pazzi. yes, i can see you. come on up. doctor fell? hello? doctor fell? hello? snap. i should have encouraged you to bring someone along. the cases are heavy. maybe you could help me with them. - hm? eh, just down the stairs, i mean. yeah. this way. here we are. is that the inventory? - yes. may i see it? - of course. you are a pazzi of the pazzi family, i think. wasn't it at the palazzo vecchio your ancestor was hanged? francesco de pazzi? yes, thrown naked with a noose around his neck from a window writhing and kicking alongside the archbishop against the cold stone wall. in fact, i found a very nice rendering of it here in the library the other day. if you like, perhaps i could, uh, sneak it out for you. - i would think that might jeopardize your chances for permanent appointment to the curatorship. only if you told. remind me, what was his crime? - he was accused of killing giuliano de medici. - oh. unjustly? no. no. i don't think so. - then he wasn't just accused. he did it, he was guilty. i think that would make living in florence with the name pazzi uncomfortable even five hundred years later. not really. in fact, i can't remember the last time before today someone brought it up. people don't always tell you what they're thinking. they just see to it you don't advance in life. i'm sorry, commendatore. i too often say what i'm thinking. i'll be right back to help you. you know, the room you're standing in was built in the fifteenth century. (pazzi) it's beautiful. yes, it is. unfortunately, i think the heating system was installed about the same time. that's a pity. - yes. okey-dokey, let's drag these down. they must be as heavy as bodies. hey. - yeah! how much is this? - fifty thousand. i'll take it. gnocco. when you go for his wallet, he'll catch you by the wrist. i've done this a few times. - not like this. if there isn't a clean print on the bracelet you'll spend the summer in a cell at the sollicciano. give me the bracelet. - wash your fucking hands. he's coming. i got it. he grabbed me just right. tried to hit me in the balls. but he missed. let me help you. - no, don't. sixteen point match, mister verger. bingo. pronto. - carlo? mason? - ciao, bello. come stai? uh, oh, oh, well, well, well. am i coming to see you? oh, yes, soon, i hope. but, uh... well, first i need you to pack off the boys. yes, i know, the day you never thought would arrive has. now, cordell will fax the veterinary forms directly to animal and plant health but you need to get the vet affidavits from sardinia. yeah. va bene? - uh-huh, bene, bene. uh, how are they? ah, they are big, mason. very big. tommaso! say again? - they are big, mason. really big. maybe two hundred and seventy kilos. - oh, wow! can you hear? oh, they sound fantastic! oh, super! the full balance of the money is payable upon receipt of the doctor alive. of course, you won't have to seize him yourself. rather just point him out. in fact, it's preferable to all concerned if that's the extent of your involvement from this point. i prefer to stay involved. to make sure things go right. professionals will see to that. - i am a professional. you enjoy the performance? - oh, very much. um, allegra, this is doctor fell, curator of the capponi library. signora pazzi. i'm honored. - are you from america, doctor? not originally. i've traveled there. - i've always wanted to visit. new england, especially. - i've enjoyed excellent meals there. you wrapped up in the libretto. i thought this might amuse you. dante's sonnet from la vita nuova. - mm-hm. it's beautiful. rinaldo, look at this. - oh, yes, i can see. "joyous love seemed to me, the while he held my heart in his hands and in his arms my lady lay asleep wrapped in a veil." "he woke her then and trembling and obedient, she ate that burning heart out of his hand. weeping, i saw him then depart from me." doctor fell, do you believe a man could become so obsessed with a woman from a single encounter? - could he daily feel a stab of hunger for her and find nourishment in the very sight of her? i think so. but would she see through the bars of his plight and ache for him? please keep that. oh, i couldn't. - i insist. commendatore. allegra. ciao. - ciao. uh, good-bye. - let's get something to eat. of course. - why not? is that you, doctor? questura. pandolfini. - chief inspector rinaldo pazzi please. agent starling, american f.b.i. - all right. eh, one moment. pazzi! f.b.i. - i'm not here! pazzi. - inspector pazzi, agent starling, f.b.i. how do you do? - i was just leaving for the day. can i call you back tomorrow? - oh, this won't take long. first of all, i'd like to thank you for sending us the security tape. when i say you, i mean your department. agent benetti. is he there? can i speak with him? - i'm sorry, he's gone home. oh, that's all right. i should tell you this rather than him anyway. i'm late for an important appointment. - well, the person i'm looking for, inspector, who was indeed shown on that tape, is hannibal lecter. who? - doctor hannibal lecter. never heard? umm, uh, i'm not familiar. - and the tape confirms that he is, or was recently, in florence. oh, really? - he's a very dangerous man, inspector. he's killed 14 people that we know of. - i really have to go, miss, uh, eh? starling. just another minute. are you sure you've never heard of him? no, i haven't. - i'm confused, because someone there has been accessing our private vicap files on doctor lecter with some regularity on your computer. - everybody uses everybody's computer here. maybe one of the detectives on il mostro was looking at profiles of killers... - i'm speaking about the computer at your home, sir. you're trying to catch him yourself, aren't you? for the reward. i cannot warn you strongly enough against that. he killed three policemen down in memphis while in custody, tearing the face off one of them, and he will kill you, too, if... yes? - i want him out of tuscany fast. believe me he'll be gone from the face of the earth fast. feet first. because of his avarice and his betrayal of the emperor’s trust pier della vigna was disgraced, blinded and imprisoned. dante's pilgrim finds pier della vigna on the seventh level of the inferno, and like judas iscariot, he died by hanging. so judas and pier della vigna are linked in dante by the avarice he saw in them. in fact, avarice and hanging are linked in the medieval mind. now this was the earliest known depiction of the crucifixion, carved on an ivory box in gaul about a.d. four hundred. it includes the death by hanging of judas, his face upturned to the branch that suspends him. here he is again on the doors of the benevento cathedral, this time with his bowels falling out. ah, commendatore pazzi. - it wasn't easy, but i got this number without tellin' 'em why. - sorry. not at all. welcome. please join us. now, in this plate from the fifteenth century edition of the inferno, pier della vigna's body hangs from a bleeding tree. i will not belabor the obvious parallel with judas iscariot, but dante alighieri needed no drawn illustration. it was his genius to make pier della vigna, now in hell speak in strained hisses and coughing sibilants as though he is hanging still. come i'altre verrem per nostre spoglie. ma no pero ch'alcuna sen rivesta. che non e giusto aver cio ch'om si toglie. que le strascineremo, e per la mesta selva saranno i nostri corpi appesi. ciascuno al prun de i'ombra sua molesta. avarice, hanging, self-destruction. io fei guibbetto a me de le mie case. i make my own home be my gallows. thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for your kind attention. i'm not a scholar, but i think you've got the job. thank you. - may i buy you a drink? fine. i'll gathering my things. - oh, well, take your time. yeah? - allegra, i'll be home just a little later than i said. i'm taking doctor fell out for a drink. yes. yeah. i can see the people coming out now. yes, bye, honey. my wife. - of course. oh, i should have shown them this one. i can't imagine how i missed it. i told you about it. it's a rendering i found in the capponi library. can you make it out? there's a name there. the one i told you about? it's your ancestor, commendatore, hanging beneath these very windows. francesco de pazzi. on a related subject, i must confess to you i'm giving very serious thought to eating your wife. so i'll ask you the questions and then we'll see, all right? okay? now, was it mason verger you sold me to? no, no, no. blink twice for yes, once for no. was it mason verger you sold me to? yes? good. thank you. and are his men waiting for me outside? was that a single blink? oh, you're confused. well, please don't be confused, because i may have to fillet signora pazzi after all. have you told anyone in the questura about me? no, i thought not. have you told allegra? no? you sure? i believe you. okey-dokey, here we go. okay. your heart is really palpitating. oh, it's not your heart. well, shall i answer it? pronto. - i've spoken to your section chief. someday you'll thank me, or you won't. i don't care. you'll be alive. inspector pazzi? - is this clarice? well, hello, clarice. i'm afraid i have bad news for you. is he dead? - did you get my note? i hope you liked the skin cream. i had it specially... - is he dead, doctor lecter? clarice, there's nothing in this world that i would love more than to be able to chat with you. unfortunately, you've caught me at an awkward moment. please forgive me. see you around. an old friend. okay, hold on. here we go. i'll go around back! cut him! kill him if you have to! so, what's it to be? bowels in or bowels out? like judas. are you confused? then i'll decide for you, if you'll permit me. ciao. carlo! yes? good evening. cordell, to you, does that look like a wave good-bye or hello? so, what do you think? does lecter want to fuck her or kill her or eat her or what? - probably all three, though i wouldn't want to predict in what order. here's what i think. no matter how barney might want to romanticize it or make it "beauty and the beast". lecter's object, as i know from personal experience, has always been degradation and suffering, but... cordell, get this damn thing off me. i can't breathe in this thing. he comes in the guise of a mentor, as he did with me and her. but it's distress that excites him. to draw him she needs to be distressed. to make her attractive to him, let him see her distressed. let the damage he sees suggest the damage he could do. when the fox hears the rabbit scream, he comes a-runnin' but not to help. - i don't understand. well, there's nothing to understand, paul. all you have to understand is, is what it's worth to you. - no, no, i don't understand why she didn't turn this over. i mean, she's such a straight arrow. she didn't turn it over because she didn't receive it. she didn't receive it because it was never sent. it was never sent because lecter didn't write it, because i did. - oh! so, what do you think? - you'd have been better off if you never got her out of trouble. - oh, woulda, shoulda, coulda! i meant, what do you think about the money? - five. ha! oh, well, let's just toss it off, like "5". let's say it with the respect it deserves. - five hundred thousand dollars. that's better. well, will it work? - it'll work. it won't be pretty. what ever is? cocksucker. - i've never seen this before. then how do you account for its being found in your office? your basement. how do you want me to answer that? let me ask you this: what possible reason might i have to withhold it? - perhaps because of the content. reads to me like a love letter. - has it been tested for prints? no prints on it. like the last one. - handwriting analysis? "did you ever think, clarice, why the philistines don't understand you? it's because you're the answer to samson's riddle: you are the honey in the lion." it sounds like him to me. - do you mean, like a homosexual? like a nut with a crush. - excuse me... i am placing you on administrative leave till document analysis tells me unequivocally a mistake's been made. you remain eligible for insurance and medical benefits. surrender your weapons and your identification. i want to say something. i'm entitled. - go ahead. i think verger is trying to capture dr. lecter for the purposes of personal revenge. and mr. krendler is in collusion with him and wants the f.b.i.'s efforts to work for verger. i think he is being paid to do this. you're lucky you're not sworn here. - swear me! you swear, too! clarice, if the evidence is lacking, you'll be entitled to full reinstatement without prejudice. if you don't do or say anything in the meantime that would make that impossible. relieved of field duty pending an internal affairs into the charges, agent starling, began her career with an assignment to interview madman hannibal lecter. earlier today we heard comments from justice department spokesman paul krendler. - mr. krendler, can you comment the decision at this morning's meeting? - f.b.i. and justice department are looking carefully into the charges, and, yes, they're extremely serious. i'd like to add a personal note. starling is one of the best agents that we have... no, no, no, no, no. stay. stay. do you think that... - look, it's much too soon to condemn her. okay? shh... shh... shh. good boy. ah, and this. i think she's nice. she's always been nice to me. polite. don't you think? - do you know what a roller pigeon is? roller pigeons climb high and fast, then roll over and fall just as fast towards the earth. there are shallow and deep rollers. but you can't breed two deep rollers, or their young, their offspring, will roll all the way down, hit and die. agent starling is a deep roller. let's hope one of her parents was not. hello? - the power on that battery is low. i would have changed it, but i didn't want to wake you. you're gonna have to use the other one, in the charger. hopefully the light on it is green. this is gonna be a long call. even though you've been stripped of your duties, i know you wouldn't abandon them, you'll try to put on a trace. so, we'll disconnect long enough for you to exchange the battery. shall we say... uh, three seconds? are you ready? yes. - go. very good. - thank you. remember, clarice, if you get caught with a concealed, unlicensed firearm in the district of columbia, the penalty is pretty stiff. but bring the guns if you have to. now get in your car. the reason we're doing it like this, clarice, is because i like to watch you as we speak, with your eyes open. no, it does not excite me. it pleases me. you have very shapely feet. where are we now? call it out. - massachusetts avenue. take it. - i thought, to begin with, you might tell me how you're feeling. - about what? the masters you serve and how they've treated you. your career, such as it is. your life, clarice. - i thought we might talk about yours. what's the next cross street? - capitol street. in 2 blocks make a left into union station. park. my life? what is there say about mine? i have been in a state of hibernation for some time. a little inactive. but now i'm back home. i'm very happy and very healthy. you, though, it's you i'm worried about. - i'm fine. no, you're certainly not fine. you fell in love with the bureau, the institution, only to discover, after giving it everything you've got that it does not love you back. that, in fact, it resents you. resents you more than the husband and children you gave up to it. why is that, do you think? why are you so resented? - tell me. tell you? god bless you. well, isn't it clear? you serve the idea of order, clarice. they don't. you believe in the oath you took. they don't. you feel it is your duty to protect the sheep. they don't. they don't like you because you're not like them. they hate you and they envy you. they're weak and unruly and believe in nothing. - mason verger wants to kill you. turn yourself in to me, and i promise no one will hurt you. will you stay with me in my prison cell and hold my hand, clarice? we could have some fun. no, verger doesn’t want to kill me any more than i want to kill him. he just wants to see me suffer in an unimaginable way. he is rather twisted, you know. have you had the pleasure of meeting him? i have. - face to face, so to speak? yes. - attractive, isn't he? doctor lecter? doctor lecter? okay, back to you. i want to know what it is you think you will do now that everything in the world you've ever cared about has been taken from you. i don't know, doctor lecter. - tell me, clarice. do you think you'll work as a chambermaid at a motel on route 66, just like your mommy? what do you think now? are you paying attention to me, ex-special agent? are you, by any chance, trying to trace my whereabouts? i'm being followed, doctor lecter. - i know. i've seen them. and now you're in a real dilemma, aren't you? do you continue to try to find me, knowing that you're leading them to me? do you have so much faith in your abilities that you believe you could somehow simultaneously arrest me and them? it could get very messy. like the fish market. hey, clarice. - yeah? what if i did it for you? - did what? harmed them, clarice. the ones who have harmed you. what if i made them scream apologies? no, i shouldn't even say it, because you'll feel, with your perfect grasp of right and wrong, that you were somehow accompli. - don't help me. no of course not. forget i said it. pier. clarice, you were very, very warm. you were so close. but now you're getting colder again. yeah warmer again. well, i think i've been generous enough with you, and the clues. you're on your own now, clarice. - doctor lecter? hope you like them, clarice. ta-ta. va bene. get out of the way! i know the first thing an hysteric says is, i am not an hysteric, but i am not an hysteric. i'm calm. - i'll ask you one time. think good. think about every good thing you ever did. think about what you swore. two men in a van. a third driving. another man down. they put him in the back. i think it was lecter. i've given you the license plate, and i'm reporting it all to you again. - all right. i'll go with it as a kidnapping. i'll send someone out with, if he'll let us on the property. - i should go, too. deputize me. no. you're not going. you're going home where you'll wait for me to call and tell you what, if anything, we found. thank mr. verger for look around. - he's always happy to see you. phone. - what number, please? carlo. pier. hello? - how is he? uh, sleeping. - bring him home. you've reached clarice starling. please leave a message. pick up, starling. there was nothing out there. i'm gonna say it again, in case you didn't hear me clearly: you are not a law officer while you're on suspension. you're joe blow. i hope, you're in the bathroom. hylochoerus meinertzhageni. ring any bells from high school biology, doctor? no? well, i could list its most conspicuous features, if that would help jog the memory. three pairs of incisors, one pair of elongated canines, three pairs of molars, four pairs of pre-molars, upper and lower, for a total of forty-four teeth. the meal will begin with an hors d'oeuvre tartare. your feet. the main course, the rest of you, won't be served until 7 hours later. but during that time you'll be able to enjoy the effects of the consumed appetizer with a full-bodied saline drip. i guess you wish now you'd, you'd fed the rest of me to the dogs. no, mason. no, i much prefer you the way you are. so, dinner at eight. you will stay for the evening's entertainment, won't you, cordell? if it's all right with you i think i'd rather not. rather not or will not? your little brother must smell almost as badly as you do by now. hold it! hands where i can see 'em! - si. quiet! - si. vai! what was that? cordell, quickly! down on your stomach! - good evening, clarice. it's just like old times. - shut up. can you walk? - i can try. you look well. - i'm gonna cut you loose. if you touch me, i'll shoot you. - understood. do right and you'll live through this. - spoken like a true protestant. better hurry. this might go faster if you hand me the knife. there was a third in the loft. behind me. cordell! get the gun and shoot him! - go into the pen? yes! - no. i'm staying out of this. you're involved is what you are, in all of it. now do it! no. - yes! hey, cordell! why don't you push him in? you can always say it was me. cordell? cordell? cordell! cordell! i'll be at my lake house all weekend. don't want any calls forwarded either, you understand? whoever it is, they can all wait, okay? mary, listen, it's fourth of july, for christ's sakes. thank you. what the fuck? good, you brought the wine. - oh, god! oh! yeah, we've traced your call and units will be there in about ten minutes. if you can do it safely, then just get out of the house. otherwise, stay on the phone with me. ma'am? are you there? are those shallots? - mm-hm. and caper berries. ah. that butter smells wonderful. - mm-hm. you feeling hungry, paul? very. what's the main course? - ah you should never ask. it spoils the surprise. clarice, what are you doing up? you should be resting. back to bed. - i'm hungry. hello, paul. - paul, don't be rude. say, "hello, agent starling." - hello, agent starling. i always wanted to watch you eat. - what have you got in your hand? something to bash me over the head with? put it on the table. good girl. - hey, that's mine. now sit down. hey, clarice. i love the dress. it's beautiful. what do you think, paul? - nice. nice. why don't you say grace, paul? me? - yeah. grace? - sure. okay. bow your head. father, we thank thee for thy blessings and dedicate them to thy mercy we are about to receive. forgive us all, even white trash like starling here and bring her into my service. amen. now i have to tell you, paul, even the apostle paul couldn't have do better. he hated women, too. - may i have some wine, please? no good idea. not with the morphine. better you should eat some broth. by the way, starling, that was a job offering i worked into the blessing. i'm going to congress, you know. - are you? come around campaign headquarters. you could be a office girl! can you type and file? can you take dictation? take this down: washington is full of corn-pone country pussy. - i took it down. you said it already. - paul, now you're being rude. and i hate rude people. drink your broth like a good boy. come on. sip. good. ugh. it's not very good, buddy. - i admit i added something to yours. it's clashing with the cumin. but i assure you, the next is to die for. ah, ah, ah! come on, clarice. - no. that's a good girl. good. you see, the brain itself feels no pain, clarice, if that concerns you. for example, paul won't miss this little piece here, which is the part of the prefrontal lobe which they say is the seat of good manners. your profile at the border stations has five features. i'll trade you. trade? - stop... how does that word taste to you? cheap and metallic like sucking on a greasy coin? - who's clarice? agent starling. if you can't keep up with the dialog, don't try to join. me, me, paul. i'm starling. - see. here, right here is the sac that contains the brain. i would really like some wine! that smells great. - yes. why don't you try a piece? i would really like some wine. it is good. - all right. but just a little. okay? no? given the chance, you would deny me my life, wouldn't you? not your life. - my freedom. you'd take that from me. and if you did, would they have you back, do you think? the f.b.i.? those people you despise almost as much as they despise you? would they give you a medal? would you have it professionally framed and hang it on your wall to look at and remind you of your courage and incorruptibility? all you would need for that, clarice, is a mirror. i had plans for that smart mouth, but i'm never gonna hire her, you now. paul? - paul? remember what i said? if you can't be polite to our guests you have to sit at the kiddies' table. don't get up, clarice. paul will help me clear and make the coffee. just think about what i said, clarice. coffee. i came halfway around the world to watch you run, clarice. let me run, huh? tell me, clarice would you ever say to me, stop? if you love me, you'd stop? not in a thousand years. that's my girl. now that's really interesting, clarice. i'm really pressed for time so where's the key? where's the key? okay. above or below the wrist, clarice? this is really gonna hurt. show me your hands! identify yourself! - i'm clarice starling! f.b.i.! hi. - hi. what's that? oh, that's caviar. - what are those? these are figs. - and that? and this? oh, that i don't think you would like. - it looks good. oh, it is good. - can i have some? you're a very unusual boy, aren't you? - i couldn't eat what they gave me. nor should you. it isn't even food as i understand the definition. which is why i always bring my own. so which would you like to try? aha. well, i suppose it's all right. after all, as your mother tells you, and my mother certainly told me, it is important, she always used to say, always to try new things. open up.