there were probably no two people on this earth more opposite than each other than myself and billy jack, and now that i look back on it, it's hard to believe that the chain of events that that would first bring us so close and then end up in so much tragedy in bloodshed could begin with an early saturday morning drive by sheriff cole over to his deputy's house. morning, cole. what brings you out this hour? they found your daughter. where? haight-ashbury again? yeah. they're flying her in to phoenix. you want to take my car and go down and get her? when? now. i can't, damn it. posner just called and told me to be out at box canyon in half an hour. it's illegal for anyone to hunt wild mustang, mike. especially a deputy sheriff. you know that. i know. i also know that when posner says jump a lot of people in this town have to jump, including me. what do you want to do about barbara? look, cole i'll try to get back before she gets here. hey, mike? yeah? how much is the dog food company paying for mustang meat now? six cents a pound. why? nothing. i was wondering if barbara would think it's worth it. get the gate! you like the first shot, mr. posner? thanks, mike. i'll let bernard have that. come on now, bernard. get your ass out of that truck. get up there and start shootin'. please, dad. you know i can't shoot. i said now! shoot! shoot, damn you! i can't. all right, mike. start shootin'. i knew he'd find us. morning, billy. you're illegally on indian land. i'm sorry about that. i guess we just got caught up in the chase and crossed over without knowing it. you're a liar. we got the law here, billy jack. when policemen break the law then there isn't any law. just a fight for survival. mr. posner, i got no authority on a federal indian reservation. drop it or die. on this reservation i am the law, so i'll tell you this just once. have your men drop their guns and you can leave quietly. you're making a mistake. i've made 'em before. we got him outnumbered, mr. posner. you know me, posner. and you know my meaning. drop 'em. all the townspeople knew about. billy jack was that he was a half-breed, a war hero who hated the war and turned his back on society by returning to the reservation, where he watched over the indians, the wild horses, and the kids at my school. no one even knew where he lived. somewhere way back in ancient ruins with an old holy man who who was teaching him secret indian ways and preparing him for a sacred initiation ceremony. hiya, sweetie... my first instinct is to beat the hell out of you. you know that, don't you? but it probably wouldn't do any good, now would it? i bet you're hungry. can i fix you something to eat, barb? how long since you last eaten? two days. two days? no wonder you don't look well. i don't look well because i've got hepatitis and a goddamn abscessed tooth that's killing me. well, let's call a doctor. you can't call the doctor. he'll make me stay in the hospital. i know, but that's the only way to cure hepatitis. not because of hepatitis, because of the baby. what baby? the it baby. i'm pregnant. you're what? pregnant. i've been expecting this. how long? maybe six weeks. all right. where's the father? where's the father? that's funny. i don't even know who the father is. what's that supposed to mean? it means, concerned father, that i was passed around by so many of those phony maharishi types who kept telling me love is beautiful and all that bullshit. in other words, concerned father, i got balled by so many guys, i don't know if the father is going to be white, indian, mexican, or black. hey. hey, miss. hey, come on, wake up. well, she's a pretty sick girl, but nothing a lot of bed rest won't cure. the question now is what are we going to do with her? another beating like that and she'll lose that baby. may be the best thing that could happen to her. - cole! - all right, all right. billy, anyone see you bring her in here? why? what do you have in mind? well we can't take her home, and posner would protect her father against anything we could do. we sure can't hide her anywhere around town, so... so you want to hide her out at the school? yeah. at least until she gets well. i ain't going to no damn school. well, it's either that or go back to your father. besides, this isn't an ordinary school. it's a very progressive school out on the reservation run by a very remarkable woman. you'll like her. person hasn't been born i'd like. what is her father going to do when he finds out she's out there? he thinks she ran away. nobody here is going to tell him any different. too narrow! come in much wider! if you want to win, kit, you've gotta do better than 18 seconds! gee, i just can't seem to get close enough. could you show me again? what are they doing? probably teaching some of the kids how to barrel race. anything any kid wants to learn, they try to teach it to them here. i told you this was a different kind of school. when i took over this school out here at the reservation, i knew here would be trouble. first because i opened it up to any kid with a problem... black, white, indian, chicano... who could come any time they wanted, stay as long as they wanted and leave when they wanted. no questions asked. then people became even more hostile when i announced that there would only be three rules. no drugs, everyone had to carry his own load, and everyone had to get turned on by creating something, anything. whether it be weaving a blanket, making a film, or doing a painting. preferably something that made one proud of one's own heritage and past. or by getting involved in such strange things as yoga meditation. keep your eyes focused on the third eye point. or psychodrama and role playing, things that the townspeople could never understand. you guys are my last chance. do you think you can do anything with her? sure. sure. okay. no problem. hold it for just a minute, okay? everybody, this is barbara. she's going to be working with us for a while, and instead of going through a lot of introduction, why don't we just get to know each other by getting into another scene? why don't we do one of those role-playing things, where we send her out the room and then she has to come back and figure out who we are. good idea. and all you have to do is come into the scene and discover who you are as the scene progresses. i can't. why not? the reason i'm here is because i'm knocked up. congratulations. okay well just do it about her being pregnant, that's all. great! all right, then let's get it together. i got a good one. how 'bout if the world is really messed up, and it really needs a new savior, and she's going to give birth to it. agreeing. okay. let's rap it out. what happens? okay, a virgin birth. okay, a virgin birth. but this is going to be a modern one, it won't have to be, like, the old kind. okay, let's do it. let's get in aisles. i'm going to be the savior... what are you doing? that's beautiful... a black jesus... so they should crucify him, and then the rest of us say give us a sign before you die, or give us the answer, or something before you die because he's dying on the cross, and that's when he gives us the sign. what's the sign of the new religion so people will know each other? carol wrote a new song about her brother, but she's too bashful to sing it. will you go up and sing it for us? i don't want to. come on. don't be so bashful, you sing so well. what's her trip? she's really out of it. she wears three pairs of false eyelashes and thinks the world is hollywood in the 1940s. she's just not quite right. i guess she doesn't have any place else to go. this whole idea of doing your thing in the mess hall came from a visit somebody made to a benedictine monastery. and anybody who wants to read or sing or just do anything at all just gets up and does it. carol has written us a new song about her brother. two of 'em. i beg your pardon, two of them. go ahead. when you go through that ceremony to become a brother to the snake, do you let the rattlesnake bite you? over and over? could i be your apprentice and help during the purification part? in order to be an apprentice you have to be able to... strip yourself of your greed and and your ego trips in order to let the spirit enter into you. my grandmother is a kachina. they say the spider woman came and worked through my grandfather. he was a medicine man. you believe in the spirit? one night when i was a boy, one came and left the bow arrows on my bed. most people think that's a bunch of crap. i don't. what are you so worried about? about the kids going into town tomorrow. why don't you just tell them that they can't go? - i can't do that. - why not? because they have to make their own decisions here, you know that. do they love each other? nobody knows. it's funny, isn't it? how everybody in town is afraid of you. but i guess it's a good thing they are, because if they weren't, they'd hurt the school a lot more than they do now. it's an awfully lonely life, though, isn't it? what's going to happen tomorrow is going to happen, and all your worry in the world isn't going to change that, okay? come on, smile. okay. right. hey, cole, when are you going to do something about those long-haired weirdoes? before or after they start to burn their draft cards? he's waiting till some of our kids start going out there and smoking, ain't you, cole? nope. as soon as i finished my shine, i'm going outside and shoot three or four of them, show 'em who's boss. wow! is that nice! wow! is that nice! was that class? or was that class! i've seen better. mr. stud, himself. he could pick up that chick just like that. couldn't ya, bernard? are you kidding! of course he could handle her, can't you, bernard? just put up the money. like, say, 50 bucks. covered. howdy. my name is bernard posner. really? really. is that supposed to mean something? around these parts, you hear the name posner quite a bit. that's very interesting. you know, you hear my name quite a bit, not just around here, either. no fooling. what's your name? up... up. that's an odd name. what's your last name? yours. up yours! hey, why isn't everybody going in? they're afraid to go in. why? indians aren't allowed in some of the stores here. what do you mean, not allowed? i don't see a sign. indians don't need a sign. they know damn well when they're not wanted. then why you going in? 'cause i like ice cream. here you go. thank you. could we have some ice cream, please? look we'd like to buy some ice-cream cones. please! sorry, i'm all out of cones. you just sold to the kid ahead of us. look, i told you. i'm all out of cones. you're a liar. you're a smart little punk, aren't you? hey, hold it, hold it! come on, you guys. there's no need for all this violence. it's a simple problem, really. harry look, i know you worked hard to own your own store and you feel you should have a right to serve whoever you want to, right? - right! - okay. while little miss up yours here feels if she wants you to serve her non-white friends, you damn well better serve her non-white friends. that doesn't sound like an insurmountable problem. hey dinosaur, bring me some of that flour over there. simple solution is simply to make. miss up yours non-white friends... white. all right, all right. what's the matter, boy, you gonna let the women do your fighting? come on. let's get out of here. you know, i'm always suspicious of you pacifist types, that it's just a fancy way of covering up that you're yellow. please this won't accomplish anything. we'll just leave. no. our good deeds not done! as for the little one here... hey! stop it! there. now everybody is white. so harry, why don't you serve all our friends an ice-cream cone? remember, before you try anything, you're in our territory now! with the sheriff nearby! bernard, the sheriff is out at the school. go get my dad. and have someone get the sheriff! bernard, i want you to know that i try. when jean and the kids at the school tell me that i'm supposed to control my violent temper and be passive and non-violent like they are, i try. i really try. but when i see this girl... of such a beautiful spirit so degraded... and when i see this boy that i love... sprawled out by this big ape, here. and this little girl who is so special to us that we call her god's little gift of sunshine. and i think of the number of years she's gonna have to carry in her memory the savagery of this idiotic moment of yours... i just go... berserk! you hurt? get in your eyes? a lot of stupid people in this world, aren't there? sure you're all right? how come you don't smile? you do look kind of funny. you better go. they're going to kill you. you okay? okay. don't go out there. nobody in town is going to help you. please don't go out there. big indian chief. so special. so above the law. you think you can do just as you please. i told you you'd make a mistake and i'd be waiting. watch his feet, man. he can kill you with his feet. he can do anything he wants with his feet. do you really think those green beret karate tricks are going to help you against all these boys? well, it doesn't look like to me like i really have any choice, now does it? that's right. you don't. you know what i think i'm going to do, then, just for the hell of it? tell me. i'm going to take this right foot... and i'm going to wop you on that side of your face. and you want to know something? there's not a damn thing you're going to be able to do about it. really? really. kill that indian son of bitch. johnny. how you doing? ben, hear you got a new foal out at your place. howdy, ai. how's that new olds working out? pete. well, i think we've done enough damage for one day, don't you? mike, take care of billy jack. all right, let's everybody go home and take a hot bath. wait a minute! aren't you going to press charges? where would i begin? please, martin. wait until they get back. billy jack said you should never practice alone, martin. you know that. why don't you two go play in the hay? stop it, martin! please, stop! i better go get jean. the only thing i can do is put him in a cast for a month or two and see how it mends. is there anything further we can do? not for him, but you better do something about her. why? well, her father suspects she might be out here, and he'll probably come out here with a search party tomorrow looking for her. any ideas? at the moment i'm fresh out of them. i want you to know that warrant isn't legal on reservation land. you don't have to let us search unless you want to. cole, whose side are you on? these people are holding this man's daughter illegally. hey kids, they don't really have a right to search here, but if it will make them feel like big men, we're going to let them go ahead, okay? to hell with this... well, one thing is pretty clear posner, she's not here. i guess that means billy has taken her off. don't you think you ought to found out where billy is? jean, they want to know where billy is. who ever knows where billy is? well, you must have some way of getting in touch with him when you need him for emergencies. whenever we want billy, we just contact him indian style. what does that mean? we just want him, and somehow he shows up. how the hell are we going to find billy on this reservation, much less get barbara if we do. jean, this has gone far enough. i think we better find barbara and forget the whole thing. i honestly don't know where she is. but if you did, you would tell me? you know me better than that. the only way we're going to find billy is to get one of these kids to tell us where he is. offer them a reward. i'll back it. make it $1,000. kids, can i talk to you a minute? can i talk to you a minute, please? please i want to talk to you a minute, goddamn it! now look, i want my daughter back. she's sick, and she needs help. she has to be home or in a hospital. can't you damn kids listen a minute? now look i'll offer $1,000! you can do it anonymously, no questions asked. don't you damn kids know what you can do with $1,000? you can live in big sur for a year! damn hippie creeps. i'm sorry i got you into all this, jean. from now on it's going to get very ugly. think about it for the sake of all these kids. you think about it. will you tell? now you know me better than that. in view of the violence of the episode at the ice cream store and in view of the extreme likelihood that more such violence even more severe in nature is liable to erupt at any moment, inflicting serious harm to members of the community as well as students and faculty of the school and in the interest of everyone's safety and the establishment of law and order the board unanimously votes to request the city attorney to seek a court injunction restraining members of the freedom school from coming into town except on saturday between the hours of noon and 4:00, and then only in groups of six or less. to the point of this resolution, we're now opening the floor. if you'd care to make a statement or ask a question affecting this matter. my name is phil crowder, and i'm a student at the school. he was beat up. all those guys jumped billy jack, right? mr. chairman... would you yield? the chair recognizes doc. i'd like to remind this board this board that the violence at the ice cream parlor was caused by the townspeople and billy jack. the students from the school had nothing to with it. there's one man on our council here who agrees with you that it was not the fault of the school. we are there are more than one person... excuse me. well, mary... there are a lot of citizens that agree with that. he has the floor... why don't you take a bath? that's a beautiful statement. if you have something to say, you'll come forward and you'll give your name to the give your name, and make your statement. o.k. corrales. respect this meeting enough to give your proper name. my proper name is o.k. corrales. do you have something against mexicans? o.k. wants to speak. let o.k. speak. okay, o.k. do you have anything to say, mr. corrales? to speak to the resolution, it opposes not only the spirit but the letter of the constitution, and many state and federal laws. and it's something that you ought to consider before you even bother to sending it to the city attorney. the chair recognizes mr. posner! but the door doesn't! order! order! order! the chair recognizes mr. posner! i respect what mr. corrales said. and our intensions are really parallel with his. we would like to preserve the peace. we would like to see the children unharmed, and we are passing this measure with that intent. we would like not to have violence. so how come your son pours flour all over indians? mr. johnson... when's the last time you cut your hair? when's the last time you brushed your teeth, sir? you're out of order phil. all right, now i want this meeting run orderly. chairman by our behavior as this council, we're proving to these students that most of the things they believe about us are true. but they're proving to us that most of the things we fear about them are true. man, this council sucks. proceed. a little girl in the school has something she'd like to read. what's your name, young lady? my name is kit, and her name is carol, and she has something she'd like to read. how old are you, young lady? too old for you. just about old enough for you, i guess. proceed, young lady. i'd like to read a speech, and after it's done, i'd like you to guess who said it in public. "the streets of our country are in turmoil." the universities are filled with students rebelling and rioting. communists are seeking to destroy our country. russia is threatening us with their might, and the republic is in danger, yes danger from within and from without. we need law and order. "without law and order, our nation cannot survive." who wrote it? well, that's very nice, young lady. do you want to know who wrote it? adolf hitler wrote it in 1932, and everyone from nixon's cabinet to your council is repeating it today. now, i'd like to know from this child if she would tell us who told her to read it here? she has her own mind. she can read by herself, you know. i wish she'd answer the question! nobody told me to read it. i just... then why did you? i think i have a right to read what i feel like reading. why did you read it? were you taught this in school? because her brain is damaged by the heathen devil-weed, marijuana. thank you, very kindly. she still has the floor! i have another question for mr. posner. well like this council here is always talking about law and order and things, well, how come he kills stallions, which is against the law? right on! this is irrelevant and immaterial. i've been sitting here for like over an hour, and i've been listening to you. and all i can see is that you're really scared and you're scared of all of us and you're scared of me. right on. we're scared of what you can do. i can come into this town but i'm not going to hurt you. i'm not going to do anything like that. how do i intimidate you? because, like, i'm another human being. are you scared of me sexually? what is it? i really want an answer. i'll give you an answer: because you're a filthy little girl. david! you're out order! you're sick! every one of you! go ahead and take a bath! you're out of order! you want to speak? you'll have your opportunity! order! order! hold it! hold it, everybody is a little crazy. you people think you're free. why don't we all calm down for a few minutes, and probably the best thing to do would be if you all could come out to the school and see what we do at our natural habitat. this is a fine example of what you do. we've been invited to this council... chairman! chairman! this is no more an example of what the school is like than it is for what the town is like, and what you're like as people. this is the example, this is the example! are you afraid? come on out to the school and see us. yes. i, for one, am afraid. will any of you come to the school? very well. very well. i will come. well, i don't know, man. i don't feel loaded, y'know. we should smoke another one? okay. my grass or yours? all tastes about the same past a certain point. i think your taste buds have burned out. no, actually, it's my brain that's burned out. cool it! there's a plain-clothes car coming out at the intersection. come on, man. straighten up and act normal. you sure look weird when you're acting normal. the red one means stop, right? right. keeps you on your toes. don't you think you better pull up to the intersection? just testing you. hey, look! over in the next car. a couple of high school kids passing a joint around. i'll turn on the red light. right. you kids want to pull over up here! the police when they see them in their rear-view mirrors. yeah, it seemed a little one-sided to me. yeah, but kids look at things one-sided. most of the things they're looking at are pretty much one-sided. well no i have an idea though, let's try something here. would you want to come up? by the way does everybody know who mr. eldridge and miss osgood from the city council? why don't we do another scene which involves a policeman and differing attitudes so we can use your attitude about policemen as well as ours. and, kit, we want you to come up too. and why don't kit you be a mother and howard be a father a family together? and, ed, why don't you be a sheriff cole? and the two of you be teenage children there of this family. sure! sure! well, i just can't do that. sure you can. sheriff, why don't arrest them for, say, marijuana and then take them home to meet their parents and explain the situation. are you ready to be busted? you're under arrest. come with me. hello, kit. what brings me here are these two. some trouble sheriff? yes, howard. i'm very sorry to have to come here for this, but these children have been smoking marijuana with a known dope fiend. what? our children? i want to thank you again for coming down. well i'm sorry it had to happen this way. i know i appreciate your doing this. we'll see you saturday night at the donavans'. sure. good luck. pig! kit! love from marge! bye-bye. thanks again, cole. all right, just calm down. calm down! how can i come down at a time like this? just sit down. sit down. how can i sit down? just bend your legs and sit! now just calm down. now what happened here? nothing happened. what do you mean nothing happened? nothing happened. can you believe me? he lied to us. that's right. he lied. you listen. we pay that man to tell us the truth! - now what happened? - nothing happened. saint jones, you owe me an honest explanation. i want to hear it right now. - i'm not your dog. - right on! as long as you live under my roof and eat the clothes i give you... i owe you! what are you, are you high on the stuff?! get up! don't yell at me! don't use that tone of voice with me. dig yourself! what's that supposed to mean, young lady? what happened? i don't know. tell me what happened, or i'll knock the words right out off your mouth. nothing happened. are you smoking this dope or not? no. snake, you talk to me, or you are going to be in big trouble. violent creature! come talk to me. you're just a big hypocrite. that's what you are! get the door! tell him we don't want any. get the door! tell him we don't want any. sit! watch television. now watch the television and enjoy it. just everyone be quiet for a second... watch yourself. and i wondered if everything was all right... snake's car broke down, and cole was kind enough to bring him home. you hypocrite! now you watch your language, young man. - you told me... - never mind what i told you! i'm telling you something different! a whole new set of lies! show some respect for your father, son. i'll thrash you! if you ask me, i think you ought to put on a whole show. invite the whole town. let 'em know what you're doing up here. why not? is billy still in the kiva? no. the grandfather took him away. would you like to come and watch the ceremony with me? what is the snake ceremony? it's a ceremony where billy becomes a brother to the snake. how does he do that? by going on the mountain and being bitten by the snake over and over. then he passes into unconsciousness for the last time and if he lives he has a vision and in this vision he finds out what his life's mission will be and who the spirit will be to guide him on this mission. also during this purification part billy has taken a secret herb medicine and given a sacred poultice to put on the bites. without it, he would die for sure. it takes about three days for the poison to work its way through his body. and by then it'll either kill him or make him a blood brother to the snake. listen. the old man is giving him a final blessing. achieva the snake waits for you upon sacred mountain. if you pass this test, then you will have a vision. it is not easy, and if you show fear, you shall die. hold on to this eagle feather, and do not let it go, regardless of what you see or what you hear. the demons will come and try to scare you, but show no fear or you shall die. may the great spirit watch over you. how long before we know? tomorrow. the time is now when the indian will triumph. he's still in the rapture of the vision. a great indian holy man, wovoka, is speaking through him. you mean they had holy men, like saints? they sure did. and wovoka was one of the greatest. once even christ appeared to him. to prevail, and the whole spiritual wisdom of the great holy men of the indian tradition is now what the young people of the world are looking for. i wonder if i have the guts. this is crazy, man. you pull that trigger and well never get out of here alive. the young whites, they know there is a supernatural world and a great spirit, and they try to reach the great spirit. they try by drugs. they are made to do this because their religions no longer believe in the other world. heaven is not out there, the other world is here. the great spirit, the messiah, the christ are here in this pit. your people, my loved ones, there is a thin veil separating us from them. the whites do not know how to reach through that veil, they do not have the belief and they cannot touch their loved ones or the other spirits. i could do it. i could kill him. yeah, sure you can. but not now, man! let's get out of here and get some help. and lastly you must learn the dance, the dance of friendship and welcome in which all whites who come to you with open hearts must be taught the dance in the indian way. rise up now and i will teach you the dance exactly as wovoka has seen it should be done. yeah, well be back. but not with help. i'm going to get him all by myself. hey, bernard! isn't that barbara? damn! she is screwing around with an indian. i thought that was just talk. okay, martin. you run and get the paint, and we'll pick you up later, okay? okay. i don't see how you expect me to carry all the paint? you hang it up on the top of your crunches. hey... can we bring it back in case it isn't it might be kind of, you know... yeah, look at these. they're great. and if you help us get her out of there, you'll not only collect that big fat reward i offered, but you'll save someone's life. like whose? yours. and billy jack's. but if you fail to help us as sure as this pipe is at your throat you're going to be one hell of a dead indian. savvy? you know, i think he is sweet on her. did it look that way to you dinosaur? yeah. holding hands, kissing her... now you listen to me, grease ball. if you ever touch her again, i'm going to cripple your other leg, and i don't mean the one you walk on, you hear? what the hell do you think you're doing? well, i guess the boys found him sneaking out the back without paying. right, sam? yeah, that's right. what are the charges, then, sam? you heard me, what are the charges? charges? well, no charges. sam here is a pretty good guy. you're not going to press charges, are you, sam? no charges. no, you're a nice guy, aren't you, sam? you're a dirty, rotten, lying son of a... bitch! we are going to do it because of the injunction, we're going to do it by their rules, but we're going to do with our attitudes. and what we want to do is to send six people, because that's as much as we can, into town, where we're going to do some street theatre rather than... sure! why let bernard and the deputy ruin all the friendships we're starting to build. it just pulls us down to their level. give me all your money! give me your money. come on... i left my wallet at home. well, you got any change? no, sorry. what's in the briefcase? yogurt. you got a wristwatch? well, it's a timex, actually. what did you pay for the band? no, man! that doesn't work! that doesn't scare me. you've blown it as a robber. you've got to come out here and give this man something for his trouble. i as a spectator felt nothing for you other than total embarrassment. you've got to let this man know that as the robber you are going to give a performance to the rob-ee. now you've got no energy. you need a subtext. in theatre it's a place where you get your energy from the center so that you can bring it out, all at once. now, what's the first emotion that comes into your head? confusion. all right. then use that and bring out that energy. do you have any bullets in the gun? no. i didn't want to hurt anybody. you should put a bullet in there so that he knows, see? or at least make him think there are bullets in there. did you think there were any bullets in the gun? well, i wasn't very intimidated. i didn't. i'm sorry. okay, well, it doesn't work that way. you take the gun and you put a bullet in it, and have that feeling of power that you plant in the back of your brain and you mix it with your energy so that when you come out here, you come out a dynamo of robbery. a man who's going to get respect as well as money. i'm going to be robbing you in just a second, so hold on. okay i'm going to show you exactly what i mean, you get yourself together as a robber and you can even keep it down because it's all flowing out so fast, so you keep it cool and you play it yourself and this man won't know what is happening and you come up to him very cool, let's have your money. let's go. freeze! i don't want to hurt you, son, so don't you make any sudden move. now you just very slowly drop that gun down on the sidewalk? put your hands up above your head, way up! move to your right. keep moving. hey, you! i want you... no, man! absolutely not! you took your eyes off me and i'm the suspect. when you look at me and you get me and you don't say freeze while i've got a gun pointed his head. i could freeze his brains out. there's an honest tax-paying citizen ready to blow his own foot up because you haven't put the situation in your control with something short and sharp and authoritative like drop the gun and up against the wall. hey man, now come... what's going on here? i think it would be a lot clearer if perhaps we just did it all over again. very good idea. okay, fine. we'll take it from the top. okay here's your gun. remember energy is what's important. i'm waiting for the bus, right? you're waiting for the bus. what have i got here, three psychos? you're not even here yet. okay, give me your money because i'm confused and i'll explode at any minute. i forgot the line. "drop the gun up against the wall." i can't drop the gun. i've got bullets in it. well, then take the bullets out. wait a minute. i have an idea. here, here. excuse me. here, take the briefcase. all right, now look. you stand right over here, sir, and you'll see the whole thing right from the beginning now. you're a businessman, you're a... let him discover all those things. fine, good idea. what if the bus comes? do i get on it? don't play it that real. okay give me all your money right now, or bad news. all right, drop the gun. i think that gesture is a little too flamboyant. i wouldn't use that. but you get the tone, don't you? right, the line was good. that was the important thing... let's take it from the top once more, please. you're beginning to mesh as a unit. can i be the robber this time? sure, mix it up. - my hat... - yes. your hat. no subtext is fine, but he just wants to play another guy. i get to be the sheriff, don't i? right - but i'm not here yet. no you're not here. okay, i'm gonna warn you, if you drop the gun again, i'm going to mess up the briefcase. - fair is fair. - okay, fine. okay, so i'm waiting for the bus. right, you're a businessman. where is that darn bus? well, madge and the kids are gonna... all right, you! you've got to be prepared. all right, one of you... i don't care who it is... get up there and drop the gun. okay, man. i warned you. you're going to throw the gun around... hey! hey! new briefcase there. i borrowed the gun! i don't care if it's a... okay, jean. is that enough? you knew she was there? i knew she was there, you knew she was there. did you know she was there? yeah, come by the school anytime. you like nice things, don't you? you better believe it. maybe you can have them sooner than you think. just what's that supposed to mean? you heard the deputy. he'll pay $1,000 just to find out where his daughter is. no questions asked. look, those kids are my friends. what kind of person do you think i am? one would do anything for a buck. where is billy jack hiding barbara? i honestly don't know. okay, miss false eyelashes. off with your blouse. off! where's barbara? please... i don't know where she is. none of the kids do. i'd tell you if i knew, i would, but i don't know where she is. all the way off... i can't believe it. i really can't believe this guy. can you believe him? not really, no. you know what he reminds me of? what? a little monkey. posner's little monkey, just running around trying to get in all the bananas. get your blouse and get out of here. will you look? probably. go on, get your blouse. okay, bernard. get out of the car and let's teach you a lesson your daddy should have taught you a long time ago. no, billy, you can't do it. if you hurt bernard, they're going to close down the school and ruin everything we've tried to build. what do you suggest i do? teach him a lesson, but without really hurting him. how? why don't you drive his car into the lake? what? i said why don't you drive his car into the lake. you know, that's not a bad thought for a pacifist. we have our days. all right, bernard. which is it going to be? drive your car into the lake or... get a dislocated elbow? what do you mean dislocated elbow? what are you, nuts or something? yeah, a lot of people think so. but then we're stuck with that, you and i. now which is it gonna be? my old man is going to kill me if anything happens. he just bought this car for me. i mean, he'll kill me if i hurt this car. really. come on, bernard. you get to choose. which is it going to be? what if i drive away? or take the knife. bernard, i wish you would. i really wish you would. don't, bernard. you don't stand a chance. next time i'll cut off your bra! now... you've got to choose. when i count to three... you drive your car in the lake. one... two... floor it! you're gonna sit there and tell me that he didn't pull a gun on you? a knife? nothing? nothing. he just told you to drive the car in the lake, and you obeyed him? now why didn't you drive away? i was scared. you were what? i was scared! you were sacred? you were scared, so you drove a $6,000 automobile into the lake? well, you're nothing but a lousy coward. cole, things are getting uglier and uglier around here. nothing but a lot of hot heads in town that would like nothing better than to charge right up to that school now and start a fire. unless you do something, there are going to be a lot of innocent people on both sides getting hurt. so suppose we begin by pressing charges. what kind of charges? what can we prove? that my son is an idiot? a stupid coward, what else? i told you, stewart. i'll handle it! how come you're hanging around down here, barbara? it wouldn't have anything to do with martin, would it? martin? listen, i'm going to go for a swim. but you stay off that horse now, you hear? yes, mama. how come you never try to lay me? that's a stupid question. don't cover up. are you afraid of me? no, i'm not afraid of you. then what? wasn't i good enough for you? i heard all indian boys want to go to bed with white girls. don't believe everything you hear. but i know you want to. i can tell. how come you never tried? because you've always been an anybody's... what's an anybody's? an anybody's is someone who puts out so she can get dates or be accepted. i want you to experience the fact that i don't love you because you'll give me some sex. i love you for yourself and for what you are. you see you are very soft and beautiful person and i love you very much. what's that? it's a saying by st. francis of assisi. it's kind of dumb, but go ahead and read it. "lord grant me this serenity" to accept the things i cannot change, courage to change the things i can, and the wisdom to know the difference. my mother left that to me. it was all she had. i want you to have it. tell me, dinosaur, why is it when a guy hates his old man as much as i do, you still keep trying to do that one thing that he'll be proud of? what makes you think billy is going to be by here? i mean he could be in africa for all we know. my god, bernard! look at that! god-damn. what are we going to do now? one move, one sound, one twitch of your eye lash, and you're dead. put your feet forward! hang on to the horn! y'know, for all my braggin'... i never really been able to go all the way with a girl. what if i get all worked up and can't finish it? hey, it was so funny when my car went into the lake. how come you're not laughing now? martin? have you found jean yet? - we've sent for her. - you better hurry up. i'm afraid barbara is going to loose that baby. bernard, this is kidnapping and rape. you stop now and i'll forget it. you go on and i swear that i'll see you in prison for the rest of your life. not a chance. you got no witnesses. whose word do you think my old man and the sheriff will believe anyway, yours or ours? lousy rotten bitch! you touch me again and i will scream. you let out one sound, and i'll put a bullet right in your mouth. then you better pull a trigger right now, because i would rather die than have you touch me again. try peer lake. you know part of me doesn't really want to do this. then let's get out of here. billy! kit! they're down here! help! billy! race you, man. lets get out of here. i pray billy kills him. you mustn't tell billy, cindy. why not? because he will kill him. damn your pacifism! i am not going to let that sick animal get away with this! he has gotten away with it. even if billy kills him, kills them all, it wouldn't change what's happened here today. he wouldn't take away any of the horror. it will just destroy a lot of innocent kids. can't you understand that? my religion, my non-violence... the kids, that's all i have left now. if you rob me of this chance... if i can't really turn the other cheek... when i can help the kids the most... then i couldn't endure what happened here today. and if they took the school away, i just couldn't live with what happened here. please, cindy, please. hey, what happened? i guess she got thrown when she was doing some trick riding. what else is wrong? come on, i've never seen you act so strange. i guess i'm just upset about barbara. it was a boy. white. we lost it. martin, do you know what mental toughness is? well, mental toughness is the ability to accept the fact that you're human, and that your going to make mistakes. lots of 'em. all your life. and some of them are going to hurt people that you love very badly, but you have the guts to accept the fact that you're imperfect, and you don't let your mistakes crush you and keep you from doing the very best that you can. a lot of good i could have done. you sure could have. you could've gone inside and comforted that girl instead of sitting out in the porch whining, feeling so sorry for yourself. and the only reason they cremated it was to keep us from knowing that it was that indian's kid. it was not an indian. i told you, i handled it. it was a white foetus. you're a goddamn liar. come on, now, mike. i don't have to listen to that from you. the hell you don't. did you know barbara was at that school? what the hell. i can see this is going no place. doc! did cole know she was at the school? you guys wait. just wait until it happens to one of your kids. well, now... i don't think we ought to wait. jean? yeah... telephone. thank you. come on, you guys! star spangled banner group get out here! places! come on... hello? jean, i'm afraid it's really bad. nobody is going to show up tonight. why not? it's posner and the deputy. seems they are up to something very stupid and crazy. don't get out of your cars, boys. i don't even want to know who any of you are. now the only trouble we're going to have here tonight if you are trying to get past me. what do you want to do? inch forward. you all know me, and you know i'm not going to let this happen. now you just turn around and go on back home. every night martin goes down to the barn to feed the horses, why don't we grab him and hold him until they give you barbara back? - cindy? - yes. go down to the barn and get martin, would you? okay. martin... come out come out wherever you are. stop it! i thought i told you to leave him alone. i was just giving the pacifist a chance to turn the other cheek. look, jean, if i knew where they were holding him, i'd go there right away, but at this point they don't trust me any more than they do you. i couldn't possibly turn her over to that man. why not? she can just run away again right after she gets there, and in the meantime, the boy will be safe. cole, you know damn well that posner will never hurt that boy. wouldn't you arrest him if he did? sure i'd arrest him, but we can't get a conviction in this town and you know it. i'm going back with you. he's right. as long as i stay here, anything can happen. as soon as martin's safe, i can split again. what can i say? all right, buck. where is she? where is she? leave him alone! she can't pull that trigger. you release that boy, or i swear i'll shoot! i swear it! please, don't make me shoot you! now, look miss, do you have the courage to shoot a man that's looking you right in the eye? please don't make me shoot you. please! look out! martin, get in the truck. okay. come on, get in. no, they'll follow you. i can't leave without you. martin, get going. as soon as you're gone, it's all over. now go back to the school. i can't. martin, please get going. all right bernard, go get him! careful! he's armed! billy's gone after martin! lord, no. well, i'll be damned! that injun is shootin' back. take her home. no, sir. not until we get martin back. she's all the insurance i've got. where's martin? i said, where's martin? he got away. hold it! now you drop that gun, or i'll shoot her. i'm not gonna ask you again. you won't have to. what? i said shoot her. you'd kill her, just like that? you'll kill her. and then i'll kill you, just like that. i'm itching to kill somebody, so it might just as well be you. pull the trigger... i wasn't going to hurt the little girl. you knew it all the time, didn't you, buck? all right, cindy. get on. did you see anyone with a gun? i only heard the shots. yeah, then what happened? i saw a corvette pull out. where did the shots come from? came from over there. was he shot? four times. in the head. i'll give you 24 hours to bring him in, stuart. and then i'm coming after him. cole, the girl is gone. it's my fault. it is my fault. if i'd have said something, martin wouldn't have had to die. if you would have said what? you're not making any sense. cindy! if she would have told me that bernard raped jean. how did you know? i didn't. billy, please! we haven't crossed over that thin line yet, but if you kill bernard, you'll be doing just what they want. can't you see that? you just can't keep making your own laws. there's got to be one set of laws fair for everyone, including you. that's fine. when that set of laws is fairly applied to everyone, then i'll turn the other cheek, too. there's got to be a better way to change those people. to change those people? you worked with king, didn't you? - yes. - where is he? - dead. - where is bob and jack kennedy? - dead. - not dead. their brains blown out because your people wouldn't even put the same controls on their guns as they do on their dogs, their bicycles, their cats, and their automobiles. i don't care about all that! i just don't want you to go out and commit murder. please, billy, please. we'll go someplace else. someplace where it doesn't have to be like this. really? you tell me where is that place, where is it? in what remote corner of this country... no, the entire goddamn planet... is there such a place where men really care about another and really love each other? now you tell me where such a place is, and i promise you that i'll never hurt another human being as long as i live. just one place? that's what i thought. i'll be back for barbara. how old are you? get out. search warrant federal, search warrant state, search warrant county, and a court order demanding that barbara be turned over to the court pending an investigation into her father's fitness as a parent. come on, let's get out of here. what do you want to do? go with you. we can try. all right, tell him i'll take care of it right away. well, it went out over the wire services. it's a big story now. the governor is sending someone to take personal charge. he wants everything frozen till he gets here. we've cornered him in the old church. he's killed mike. no. what are we going to do, jean? he'll die before he'll give himself up. can you talk to him? try? you never told me what's in that thing. it's my medicine bag. got some owl's feathers, sacred corn, snake teeth. what's it for? contains my power. without it i'd be outside of the flow of life's forces. like samson without his hair? you got it. billy! billy jack! can you hear me? jean is coming in to talk to you. it's no trick. no one will try to sneak up on you. she just wants to talk to you. i don't suppose you care too much that you're bleeding to death. everything they want from here on out, they're gonna have to take. you don't understand that, do you? no. i only know you can't solve everything by violence, billy. they'll kill you, billy. i wish there was something i could say to change all that. i know i've never said it to you, but i think you know. i love you. i think you know too. it just seems so insane that we have to go living without you. what about barbara? it's up to her to decide. barbara, will you go out with me? no. may i ask why? from the day i was born till this moment, and every second in between, life has just been one big shit brick. i just can't take it anymore. the way things are going, well as the indians say, today is as good as any to die. you've taught her well. an indian isn't afraid to die. don't ever expect a white man to understand that. i understand it. that's good for an indian. like the old man said, being an indian is not a matter of blood. it's a way of life. i understand that, too. she's a 15-year-old child who worships the ground you walk on, and now she's going to die needlessly because you haven't got the guts to control your temper. it's so easy for you to die dramatically. it's a hell of a lot tougher for those of us who have to keep on trying. stay back there! hello, charlie. how are you? jim, what's the situation? he's barricaded himself in the church. we've got to make every effort to take him alive. no way. hell, he's only one man. it shouldn't be too tough. what do you mean no way? why can't you just move on in there and take him with some cover fire, and bring him on out with some tear gas? you've got a whole army here. no way. can you do it? well do it. - get down! - i want to help load. put your head up and i'll knock it off. now get down! stay down! pull back! pull back! cease fire! cease fire! cease fire! pull back. okay. you can come out now. i don't think i can. this dying stuff's not all it's cracked up to be. you crazy nut. don't let them take me. you don't even have a medicine bag, so how can it be your day to die? you're going, period. it's just that if you die, that'll kill jean, the school, and everything she lives for. and if you love her, i don't see why you'd do that to her. that's all. got to take him alive. where's that girl? she's already been in there several times. well, then send her in there several more times. maybe a couple of us ought to go in with her this time. hey, billy! we're not armed. no tricks. you have my word. come ahead. but you will get a fair trial, because the whole world will have reporters here watching it. and because a lot of politicians will realize it's in their own selfish interest to at least go through the form of giving you a fair trial. but in the meantime, you will have accomplished an awful lot of good. like what? like calling attention to the unbelievably horrible way that the indian is cheated and forced to live in this country. and the stupid insensitivity of washington, the whole damn indian bureau. for god's sake, billy, you get yourself killed now, it's a headline in tomorrow's paper and that's it. but if you go to trial, millions of people will learn what's happening. like you just said, still not a damn thing will be done. what about the school? could we get enough money and freedom to run it for the next five years without interference? they'll give you that in a minute. in writing? i'm sure they would. it's funny, isn't it? only the white man wants everything put in writing, and only then so he can use it against you in court. you know, among the indians, a promise is good enough. as far as i can tell, washington entered into 3,500 treaties with the indians to date, and they've broken about 3,499. i agree with you, billy. promises haven't meant very much. but this is one they'll keep. the important point is this. if you have to go out, you might as well make it count for something. well, i can't think of anything else to say. tell them that i'll give them an answer in the morning. we're different, you and i. your spirit is more calm and pacific in you than any person i have ever known. and mine has been in a violent rage from the day i was born. and you know something? i didn't really want it that way. billy, that's a bunch of crap. i'm no different than you. do you think when bernard was on top of me, grunting and slobbering, i didn't hate? i hated more than anybody else on this earth ever hated. and every time that picture pops in to my mind, i... whoo... i've never hated so much in my life. when i think of that, i dismember and i mangled, and i castrate bernard over and over and over and over in my mind. at least a million times a day. the bad part is, even though he's dead... i couldn't tell you. you had to get your hate out. i had to keep mine in. i knew what you'd do. but i knew how important it was to the kids. and i knew that their lives and their needs were more important than any hate i had. they're more important than killing bernard. but maybe... maybe if i had told you... martin may... might be alive now. i don't know. i don't know anymore. first, the school be guaranteed to operate for the next ten years without any interference, and that i be given a ten-year contract as directress. second, that barbara be put in my custody as her legal guardian. that's all he wants? no, he also wants you to guarantee that someone from the governor's office will hold a press conference every year to report on the progress of the school. hell, he's got it. call washington. see if they'll honor their end of the bargain. some lawyer from the east called. he wants to defend you free. i know to let them handcuff you... close you in, and lock you up is by far the hardest thing you've ever done. and i know that you're only doing it because of the love you have for the kids... and me. washington says okay, billy. i love you, billy. you've got a deal!