chim chiminy chim chiminy chim chim cheree a sweep is as lucky as lucky can be chim chiminy chim chiminy chim chim cheroo good luck will rub off when he shakes hands with you chim chiminy chim chim cheree chim cheroo all right, ladies and gents. comical poems suitable for the occasion, extemporised and thought up before your very eyes. all right, here we go. room here for everyone gather around the constable's responstable. now, how does that sound? hmm... hello, miss lark i got one for you miss lark likes to walk in the park... - grrrr. - ...with andrew! arf! arf! - hello, andrew. - arf! arf! grrrr! grrrr! ah, mrs cory a story for you your daughters were shorter than you, but they grew. dear miss persimmon... yes? wind's in the east mist comin' in like something is brewin' about to begin can't put me finger on what lies in store but i feel what's to happen all happened before arf! arf! grrrr! i'm sorry. where was i? thank you, one and all, for your kind support. ah, miss lark, thank you. crikey. bless you, guv. generosity itself, that's what you are. no charge. oh, it's you. hello. number 17 cherry tree lane, you say? all right. come with me. this here's cherry tree lane. nice little spot, you might say. number 17 is just down a bit. now this imposing edifice what first greets the eye is the home of admiral boom, late of his majesty's navy. likes his house shipshape and bristol fashion at all times. - time gun ready? - ready and charged, sir. - three minutes and six seconds. - aye, aye, sir. what he's famous for is punctuality. the whole world takes its time from greenwich, but greenwich takes its time from admiral boom. what cheer, admiral? good afternoon! where are you bound? some parties want to see number 17. - enter that in the log. - aye, aye, sir. some advice, young man. storm signals are up at 17. heavy weather brewing there. thank you, sir. i'll keep an eye skinned. here we are. number 17 cherry tree lane, residence of george banks, esquire. hello, hello, hello. the admiral's right. heavy weather brewing at number 17, and no mistake. leave her alone! don't you be trying to stop the wretched creature! let her go and good riddance. i never liked her from the moment she set foot in the door. but who'll get stuck with the children? me, that's who! her and her high and mighty ways. and that face of her that would stop a coal barge, it would. indeed, mrs brill! i wouldn't stay in this house another minute for all the jewels in christendom. no, katie nanna, don't go! stand away from that door! what'll i tell the master about the children? it's no concern of mine. those beasts ran away from me. they must be somewhere. did you look around the zoo? you think the lion got them? they're fond of hanging around the cage. i've said my say. i've done with this house forever. hip, hip, hooray! don't stumble on the way out. no, no, katie nanna! mrs banks. she's home. our daughter's daughters will adore us and we'll sing in grateful chorus "well done, sister suffragette" good evening, katie nanna and ellen. the meeting was glorious! mrs whitbourne-allen chained herself to the prime minister's carriage. you should have been there! and mrs ainslie was carried off to prison. singing and scattering pamphlets all the way! madam, i've always given my best... thank you, katie nanna. i knew you were one of us. we're clearly soldiers in petticoats and dauntless crusaders for women's votes though we adore men individually we agree that as a group they're rather stupid mrs banks... cast off the shackles of yesterday shoulder to shoulder into the fray our daughter's daughters will adore us and they'll sing in grateful chorus "well done, sister suffragette" i don't wish to offend, but... from kensington to billingsgate one hears the restless cries from every corner of the land womankind, arise political equality and equal rights with men take heart, for mrs pankhurst has been clapped in irons again no more the meek and mild subservients we we're fighting for our rights militantly never you fear if i may have a word... so cast off the shackles of yesterday shoulder to shoulder into the fray our daughter's daughters will adore us and they'll sing in grateful chorus "well done" mrs banks! "well done" mrs banks! what is it, katie nanna? i have something to say to you. where are the children? the children, to be precise, are not here. they've disappeared again. that's really careless of you. that's the third time this week. the fourth, madam. i've had my fill. i'm not one to speak ill of the children. when do you expect them home? i couldn't say. if you'd compute my wages... oh, gracious! you're not leaving? what will mr banks say? he'll be cross when he finds the children missing. put these away. the cause infuriates mr banks. i beseech you, please reconsider. think of the children. think of mr banks. he was just getting used to you. posts, everyone! fire! - i do beseech you... - my wages, if you please. bit early tonight, admiral? nonsense. bang on the dot, as usual. how's the world of finance? never better. money's sound, credit rates are moving up, - and the pound is admired everywhere. - good. how about you? bit chancy, i'd say. the wind's up. the glass is falling. - don't like it. - good. good, good. banks, you're steering into a nasty piece of weather. banks! do you hear me? hello, katie nanna. that must be heavy. allow me. hmph! what a very pretty hat. i feel a surge of deep satisfaction much as a king astride his noble steed thank you. when i return from daily strife to hearth and wife how pleasant is the life i lead - dear, the children... - yes, yes, yes. i run my home precisely on schedule at 6:01, i march through my door my slippers, sherry, and pipe are due at 6:02 consistent is the life i lead george, they're missing. splendid, splendid. it's grand to be an englishman in 1910 king edward's on the throne it's the age of men i'm the lord of my castle the sovereign, the liege i treat my subjects servants, children, wife with a firm, but gentle hand noblesse oblige it's 6:03, and the heirs to my dominion are scrubbed and tubbed and adequately fed and so i'll pat them on the head and send them off to bed ah, lordly is the life i lead winifred, where are the children? they're not here, dear. of course they're here. where else would they be? - i don't know. - you don't know? they're missing. katie nanna has looked everywhere. very well. i'll deal with this at once. the police station. quickly, please. we needn't bother the police. the fact is... facts cloud the issue. one fact alone is clear. katie nanna's faltered. she's disappointed us. i shall bring her to book... oh. - she's left us, hasn't she? - yes, only just. george banks here. 17 cherry tree lane. it's a matter of some urgency. please send a policeman. the policeman's here, george. what? oh. very prompt. wonderful service. thank you so much. good night. come in, constable. while on duty across the park, i noted some stray valuables. - i believe they're yours. - valuables? come along now. jane. michael. winifred, don't be emotional. i wouldn't be too hard on them, sir. they've had a long, weary walk today. children, come here at once. well? - sorry we lost katie nanna, father. - it was windy... and the kite was too strong. the kite ran away, sir, not the children. thank you. i'll manage this. it wasn't a good kite. we made it ourselves. perhaps if you helped us... that's the ticket. kites are skittish things. only last week... i'm very grateful to you, constable. the cook will find you a plate of something. i shall now return to my duties. thank you, constable. good night, miss. good night, ma'am. good night, sir. "cook will find something." i'm awfully sorry about this, george. you'll want to discuss it. i would, indeed. ellen, take the children upstairs. yes, sir. i knew it. who bears the brunt of everything? me, that's who. they don't want an honest working girl here. they need a ruddy zoo keeper. sorry. when i chose katie nanna, i thought she'd be firm. she looked solemn, cross. never confuse efficiency with a liver complaint. i'll do better next time. next time? you've engaged six nannies. they've all been unqualified disasters. i quite agree. choosing a nanny is a delicate task, requiring insight, balanced judgment, and an ability to read character. under the circumstances, it might be apropos to select the next person myself. would you, george? i'll do this properly. i'll advertise in the times. - take this down, please. - yes, of course. wanted... no, required... nanny. firm, respectable, no-nonsense. a british nanny must be a general the future empire lies within her hands and so the person that we need to mould the breed it is a nanny who can give commands - getting this, winifred? - yes, every word. a british bank is run with precision a british home requires nothing less tradition, discipline, and rules must be the tools without them disorder, catastrophe, anarchy in short, you have a ghastly mess splendid, george. inspirational. the times will be so pleased. - father. - yes? we've discussed everything, and we're very sorry about today. i should think so. - it was wrong. - indeed. we'll cooperate with the new nanny. i'll be glad for your help. that's why we wrote this advertisement. advertisement for what? the new nanny. - you wrote an... - george, let's listen. you wanted our help. oh, very well. "wanted, a nanny for two adorable children." "adorable." that's debatable, i must say. "if you want this choice position "have a cheery disposition" jane, i don't... "rosy cheeks, no warts i wrote that. "play games, all sorts "you must be kind "you must be witty "very sweet and fairly pretty" - that's... - george, please. "take us on outings, give us treats "sing songs, bring sweets "never be cross or cruel "never give us castor oil or gruel "love us as a son and daughter "and never smell of barley water" i wrote that, too. "if you won't scold and dominate us "we will never give you cause to hate us "we won't hide your spectacles so you can't see "put toads in your bed or pepper in your tea "hurry, nanny "many thanks "sincerely "jane and michael banks" thank you. most interesting. we've had enough of this. please return to the nursery. - they were only trying to help. - i'm aware of that. i congratulate myself on stepping in. "play games, sing songs, give treats." ridiculous. no question in my mind. now is the time for action. the times, please. i don't know the number. oh, george, you're always so forceful. the times? george banks, cherry tree lane. i wish to place an advertisement. - time gun ready? - ready and charged, sir. i'll take the report, mr binnacle. wind's coming from a new quarter. so it is. - sir. - what? something taking place off the port bow. ghastly looking crew, i must say. there's a queue of nannies outside. shall i show them in? i said 8:00, and 8:00 it shall be. 12 seconds to go. - posts! it is now 8:00. yes, sir. i have told you repeatedly, ellen, i dislike being hurried into things. i don't understand. they're nothing like what we advertised for. woof! woof! woof! michael, look! - perhaps it's a witch. - nonsense. witches have brooms. it's her. it's the person. she's answered our advertisement. rosy cheeks and everything. - show them in, one at a time. - yes, sir. - come in, one at a time. - thank you. you are the father of jane and michael banks? i said, you are the father of jane and michael banks? yes, of course. you brought your references? i never give references. i believe it very old-fashioned. we'll see about that then. now then, the qualifications. item one, "a cheery disposition." i am never cross. item two, "rosy cheeks." obviously. item three, "play games, all sorts." they'll find my games extremely diverting. where did you get this paper? i tore it up. excuse me. item four, "you must be kind." i am kind, but extremely firm. have you lost something? that paper. i thought that i... you are george banks? and you did advertise for a nanny? george banks. very well, then. tore it up, turned it over, threw it in the... are you ill? i hope not. about my wages... - the reference is obscure. - obscure. we must be clear on that. - i require every second tuesday off. - every tuesday. perhaps a trial period would be wise. hmm... i'll give you one week. i'll know by then. i'll see the children now. close your mouth. we are not codfish. don't stand there. best foot forward. spit spot. george? - aah! i thought you were interviewing nannies. i was, i was. you've selected one already? yes, it's done. - where is she? - in the nursery. - i put her to work straight-away. - how clever. i'd have muddled everything. is she everything that we hoped she'd be? it all happened rather quickly. i mean, i... i, uh... will she be firm and give commands? will she mould our young breed? winifred, i think she will. i think she will! in that case, perhaps ellen should dismiss the others. the others? - ellen! - yes, sir? tell the others the position's been filled. - the others, sir? - yes, the others. how many nannies does this house need? the position has been filled. i'm afraid the nursery isn't very tidy. rather like a bear pit. - that's a funny bag. - carpet. - to carry carpets? - no, made of. your room has a lovely view. hmm... it's not exactly buckingham palace... still, it's clean. yes, it will be quite suitable. just needs a touch here and there. first things first. the place to hang a hat is on a hat stand. oh! this will never do. i much prefer seeing all of my face at once. but there was nothing in it. never judge things by their appearance, even carpetbags. i never do. "a thing of beauty is a joy forever." hmm... a little more light perhaps. we'd better watch this one. - she's tricky. - she's wonderful. much better. now, let me see. that's funny. i always carry it. it must be here somewhere. - what? - my tape measure. - what for? - to see how you measure up. that's the funniest thing i ever saw. ah ha ha ha. here it is. good. come along, then. quickly. head up, michael. don't slouch. just as i thought. "extremely stubborn and suspicious." - i am not. - see for yourself. - "extremely stubborn and susips..." - suspicious. now you, jane. "rather inclined to giggle. doesn't put things away." how about you? very well. hold this for me. as i expected. "mary poppins, practically perfect in every way." mary poppins. is that your name? it's lovely. i've always liked it. shall we move? in your advertisement, did you not request games? yes. first we'll play "well begun is half done." that sounds suspicious. otherwise entitled, "let's tidy up the nursery." i told you she was tricky. shall we begin? it is a game, isn't it? depends on your viewpoint. you see, in every job that must be done, there is an element of fun. you find the fun, and snap, the job's a game. and every task you undertake becomes a piece of cake a lark, a spree it's very clear to see that a spoonful of sugar helps the medicine go down the medicine go down medicine go down just a spoonful of sugar helps the medicine go down in a most delightful way a robin feathering his nest has very little time to rest while gathering his bits of twine and twig though quite intent in his pursuit he has a merry tune to toot he knows a song will move the job along for a spoonful of sugar helps the medicine go down the medicine go down medicine go down just a spoonful of sugar helps the medicine go down in a most delightful way the honeybees that fetch the nectar from the flowers to the comb never tire of ever buzzing to and fro because they take a little nip from every flower that they sip and hence and hence they find they find their task is not a grind their task is not a grind aaah cheeky. don't be all day. let me out! let me out! let me out! well... thank you now. when you've quite finished! thank you. that's quite sufficient. hats and coats, please. it's time for our outing. let's tidy up the nursery again. enough's as good as a feast. you're not as well turned out as i'd like. still, there's time. spit spot. and off we go! for a spoonful of sugar helps the medicine go down the medicine go down medicine go down just a spoonful of sugar helps the medicine go down in the most delightful way chim chiminy chim chiminy chim chim cheroo i does what i likes and i likes... what i do hello, art lovers. today i'm a screever and as you can see a screever's an artist of highest degree and it's all me own work from me own memory not royal academy. still, they're not bad, are they? chim chiminy chim chiminy chim chim cheroo i draws what i likes and i likes what i drew no remuneration do i ask of you but me cap would be glad of a copper or two me cap would be glad of a copper or two wait! don't move. don't move a muscle. stay right where you are. i'd know that silhouette anywhere. - mary poppins! - hello, bert. you know jane and michael. well, i've seen them here and about. chasing a kite last time, weren't it? we're going to the park. to the park? not if i know mary poppins. other nannies go to the park. when you're with mary poppins, quick as you can say, "bob's your uncle," the most unusual things happen. what are you talking about? it's not my place to say, but she probably has in mind a jolly holiday. something along these lines. that's always good. here we go. how about a lovely circus? lions and tigers. world famous artistes performing death-defying feats of dexterity and skill. ta-da! ta-da! oh, that's lovely. i'd much rather go there. a typical english countryside done by a loving hand. though you can't see it, there's a little country fair down that road. i don't see any road. what? no road? just wants a bit of something here and a bit of something there. there. a country road suitable for travel and high adventure. may we go, mary poppins, please? don't you think it's lovely, mary poppins? now's the time. no one's looking. oh, please. please. i have no intention of making a spectacle of myself. all right. i'll do it myself. do what? bit of magic. - magic? - it's easy. let's see. you think. you wink. you do a double blink. you close your eyes and jump. is something supposed to happen? bert, what utter nonsense. oh. why do you complicate things? give me your hand, michael. don't slouch. mary poppins, you look beautiful. - do you really think so? - cross my heart, you do. you look fine, too, bert. isn't there a fair? down the road and behind the hill. i hear the merry-go-round. - tell them hello. - don't smudge the drawing. ain't it a glorious day right as a mornin' in may i feel like i could fly now, bert, none of your larking about. have you ever seen the grass so green or a bluer sky oh, it's a jolly holiday with mary mary makes your heart so light you haven't changed. when the day is grey and ordinary mary makes the sun shine bright oh, honestly. oh, happiness is bloomin' all around her the daffodils are smiling at the dove when mary holds your hand you feel so grand your heart starts beatin' like a big brass band you are light-headed. it's a jolly holiday with mary no wonder that it's mary that we love oh, it's a jolly holiday with mary mary makes your heart so light when the day is grey and ordinary mary makes the sun shine bright oh, happiness is bloomin' all around her the daffodils are smiling at the dove, oink, oink when mary holds your hand you feel so grand your heart starts beatin' like a big brass band it's a jolly holiday with mary no wonder that it's mary that we love thank you. our pleasure, mary poppins. oh, it's a jolly holiday with you, bert gentlemen like you are few a vanishing breed. though you're just a diamond in the rough, bert underneath your blood is blue common knowledge. you'd never think of pressing your advantage forbearance is the hallmark of your creed a lady needn't fear when you are near your sweet gentility is crystal clear oh, it's a jolly holiday with you, bert a jolly, jolly holiday with you waiter! waiter? now then, what would be nice? we'll start with raspberry ice and then some cakes and tea order what you will there'll be no bill it's complimentary you're very kind. anything for you, mary poppins. you're our favourite person. right you are. it's true that... mavis and sybil have ways that are winning and prudence and gwendolyn set your heart spinnin' phoebe's delightful maude is disarming felicia, janice and lydia charming! cynthia's dashing, vivian's sweet stephanie's smashing, priscilla a treat veronica, millicent, agnes, and jane convivial company, time and again dorcas and phyllis and glynis are sorts i'll agree are three jolly good sports but cream of the crop, tip of the top is mary poppins and there we stop when mary holds your hand you feel so grand your heart starts beatin' like a big brass band woo! it's a jolly holiday with mary no wonder that it's mary that we love no wonder that it's mary that we love no wonder that it's mary that we love yahoo! yahoo! yahoo! yahoo! our own private merry-go-round. nice. very nice, indeed, if you don't want to go nowhere. who says we're not going anywhere? oh, guard! righto, mary poppins. thank you. they're off! mary poppins leads by two lengths, jane's second by... my horse is the fastest. hear that, mate? want to put up with that? is that the best you can do? hurry up, boy! not so fast, please. michael. bert, you're just as bad. sorry. whoa, boy. whoa. easy, boy. whoa. whoa. just a bit of high spirits, mary poppins. please control yourself. we're not on a racecourse. follow me, please. - good morning. - oh, yes, quite. what? i say. have you... ever? never! view halloo. oh, yes, definitely. a view halloo. view halloo? faith and begorra. 'tis them redcoats again. oh, musha, musha. poor little bloke. let's give him a hand. saints preserve us. yikes! tally ho! da-doo da-doo! up you go. now hang on. would you look at this? an elegant merry-go-round horse. come on, you dirty omadhauns. i'll lick all of you. faster, me beauty. faster! riders, would you be kind and let me pass? certainly, ma'am. - thank you. - not at all, ma'am. excellent time, gentlemen. - quite. - perfect day for it. ahem. oh, how nice. hooray! yay! yay! hold still. watch the dickie bird. - how does it feel to win? - well... - gaining fame and fortune. - yes. - your picture in the newspaper. - actually... extreme good looks, may i say? no words describe your emotion? gentlemen, on the contrary, there's a very good word. - right? - tell them. right. it's supercalifragilisticexpialidocious even though the sound of it is something quite atrocious if you say it loud enough you'll always sound precocious supercalifragilisticexpialidocious um diddle diddle diddle um diddle ay um diddle diddle diddle um diddle ay um diddle diddle diddle um diddle ay um diddle diddle diddle um diddle ay 'cause i was afraid to speak when i was just a lad me father gave me nose a tweak and told me i was bad but then one day i learnt a word that saved me aching nose the biggest word you ever heard and this is how it goes oh, supercalifragilisticexpialidocious even though the sound of it is something quite atrocious if you say it loud enough you'll always sound precocious supercalifragilisticexpialidocious um diddle diddle diddle um diddle ay um diddle diddle diddle um diddle ay um diddle diddle diddle um diddle ay um diddle diddle diddle um diddle ay he travelled all around the world and everywhere he went he'd use his word and all would say, "there goes a clever gent" when dukes and maharajas pass the time of day with me i say me special word and then they ask me out to tea supercalifragilisticexpialidocious even though the sound of it is something quite atrocious if you say it loud enough you'll always sound precocious supercalifragilisticexpialidocious um diddle diddle diddle um diddle ay um diddle diddle diddle um diddle ay you can say it backwards... dociousaliexpiistifragicalirupes. - bit too much? - indubitably. so when the cat has got your tongue there's no need for dismay just summon up this word and then you've got a lot to say but better use it carefully or it could change your life for example, i said it to me girl. now me girl's me wife. and a lovely thing she is. she's supercalifragilisticexpialidocious supercalifragilisticexpialidocious supercalifragilisticexpialidocious supercalifragilisticexpialidocious jane, michael! stay close now. oh, bert, all your fine drawings. there's more where they came from. meantime, i'm changing businesses. this is hot chestnut weather. come along, children. - bye, bert. - bye-bye. - bye. - bye, jane and michael. chim chiminy, chim chiminy chim chim cheroo la dum da da dum da da da da dum no, i won't take your nasty medicine! do we have to, mary poppins? people with wet feet must take their medicine. i don't want it. oh! lime cordial! delicious! strawberry! mmm! rum punch. quite satisfactory. you won't ever leave us, will you? do you have a handkerchief? will you stay if we're good? a pie crust promise. easily made, easily broken. whatever would we do without you? i'll stay until the wind changes. how long will that be? it's time to go to sleep. we couldn't possibly go to sleep. so many lovely things happened today! did they? we jumped into bert's picture. the horses fled the carousel. and we went riding! tally ho! tchunga! tally ho! yoicks! really? don't you remember? you won the race. a respectable person like me? how dare you. i saw you do it. another word and i'll summon a policeman. i saw it happen! - go to sleep. - i don't want to. we're much too excited. very well. suit yourselves. stay awake don't rest your head don't lie down upon your bed while the moon drifts in the skies stay awake don't close your eyes though the world is fast asleep though your pillow's soft and deep you're not sleepy as you seem stay awake don't nod and dream stay awake don't nod and dream glorious day, mr binnacle, glorious. nobody sleeps this morning. put in double powder. a double charge? aye, sir. shake things up a bit, what? - lovely, lovely morning, ellen. - indeed it is, ma'am. - you packed the spoiled eggs? - yes. after our meeting, we're all going to throw things at the prime minister. how distinguished you look today. what's all that fearful caterwauling? it's cook singing. - what's wrong with her? - she's happy as a cricket. since you hired mary poppins, the most extraordinary thing has come over the household. - ellen hasn't broken a dish all morning. - that is extraordinary. she and cook fight like cats and dogs, but today... - i'll hold the door. - thanks ever so. ellen, stop making that offensive noise. and shut the window. that bird's giving me a headache. yes, sir. quiet! you're giving the master a headache. i'm sorry you're unwell. who said i'm unwell? i just don't understand why everyone's so confoundedly cheerful. supercalifragilisticexpialidocious supercalifragilisticexpialidocious how lovely. thank you, my darling. supercalifragilisticexpialidocious supercalifragilisticexpialidocious stop, stop, stop! - good morning, father. - morning. mary poppins taught us... supercalifragilisticexpialidocious what are you talking about? supercali... whatever it is. it's something to say when you don't know what to say. yes, well, i always know what to say. - yes, hurry along, please. - yes, father. supercalifragilisticexpialidocious winifred, will you explain this unseemly hullabaloo? i don't think there's anything to explain. the children just came in to make you feel better. i should like to be quite clear. i am not out of sorts. i'm in a perfectly equable mood. i do not require being made to feel better! you're always saying you want a cheerful and pleasant household. i should like to make a differentiation between cheerful and... excuse me, dear. posts, everyone, please! i have no objection to cheerfulness. i expect certain decorum. i don't propose standing idly by and letting poppins undermine the discipline... there's something extremely odd about this household since that woman arrived, and i've noticed it. yes, dear. one thing more. yes, dear? have this piano repaired. i like to have it in tune. but, george, you don't play. that is entirely beside the point! now, let me see. we must go to the piano tuners, then to mrs cory's shop for some gingerbread, then to the fishmonger's for dover sole and prawns. michael, stop stravaging along behind. ahoy, there! ahoy! - good day to you. - good morning, admiral. what fine adventure are we off upon today? going to fight the hottentots? dig for buried treasure? we're going to buy fish. very good. proceed at flank speed. aye, aye, sir. let's put our backs into it. more spit and polish. that's what's wanted. andrew. woof! woof! woof! woof! woof! woof! slow down. i can't understand a word. woof! woof! woof! again? the poor man. woof! woof! woof! woof! ah-choo! bless you. woof! woof! woof! why, yes, certainly. i'll go straight-away. - thank you very much. - woof! - what did he say? - "you're welcome." - and? - he didn't say anything. you know best. i thought we were buying fish. there's been a change of plans. come along, please. don't straggle. andrew, worrying won't help anyone. you should go home and rest. woof! - bert, i'm glad you're here. - i came right away. how is he? he's never been worse. how about them? it's contagious, you know. - we'll get spots? - unlikely. ohh! hoo hoo hoo! oh, uncle albert. bless my soul. it's mary poppins. i'm delight... ha-ha! i'm delighted to see you. uncle albert, you promised. ha-ha! i know. i tried, really, i did. i... ho ho! but i so enjoy laughing. ah ha ha! when i start, it's up with... ha ha ha! that's what happens. i love to laugh! ah ho ho! oh, my! i can't help it. ha ha ha! i just like laughing. ha ha! ha ha! don't you dare. you'll only make him worse. - it's quite serious. - keep a straight face. last time, we took three days to get him down. i love to laugh hoo hoo hoo hoo! loud and long and clear ha! i love to laugh ha ha ha ha! it's getting worse every year ha ha ha! the more i laugh ho ho ho! the more i fill with glee you're no help! the more the glee ha ha ha ha! the more i'm a merrier me hoo hoo hoo! it's embarrassing. the more i'm a merrier me ha ha ha ha ha ha! ha ha ha ha! some people laugh through their noses sounding something like this mmm-hmm hmm hmm! dreadful. sss-sss-sss! some people laugh through their teeth goodness sakes hissing and fizzing like snakes sss sss sss! not at all attractive. some laugh too fast hee hee hee hee! some only blast ha! others they twitter like birds hee hee hee hoo! hee hee hee hoo! you're as bad as he is. then there's that kind what can't make up their mind hmm hmm hmm, ha ha ha! hee hee hee, ho ho ho! hee ha ho huh? when things strike me as funny i can't hide it inside and squeak, hee, as the squeakelers do ha ha ha! i've got to let go with a ho ho ho ho ha ha ha ha! and a ho ho ho, hoo! how nice! i was hoping you'd turn up. we always have a jolly time. we love to laugh ha ha ha ha! loud and long and clear hoo hoo hoo! we love to laugh ha ha ha ha! so everybody can hear ha ha ha! the more you laugh don't you start. come back here. we fill with glee hee hee hee! and the more the glee ha ha ha ha! the more we're a merrier we welcome, children. welcome. make yourselves comfortable. pull up a chair. i say, you're a sight. speaking of sight, it reminds me of me brother. he works in a watch factory. what's he do? he stands about all day and makes faces. makes faces in a watch factory! you made that up. that's good. such behaviour. it's disgraceful or my name isn't mary poppins. i know a man with a wooden leg named smith. what's the name of his other leg? wasn't that funny? what's the name of... children, it's tea time. i won't have schedule interruptions. please stay. look, i have tea ready for you. and it's getting cold. i had hoped that maybe you would... splendid! thank you very much. mind the bread and butter. now watch, children. i knew she'd do it... a proper tea. i suppose you'll want me to pour. if i must, i must. but stop behaving like laughing hyenas. - two lumps, uncle albert? - yes, please. - bed? - none for me. i'm glad you came. it wouldn't be fun otherwise. pour some milk for michael and yourself. - nice weather we're having. - yes. the other day when it was cold, a friend bought long underwear. the shopkeeper said, "how long do you want it?" my friend said, "from september to march." jane! control yourself! children, please sit up properly. - your tea, uncle albert. - thank you, dear. i'm having fun. i wish you could always stay here. we'll have to. there's no way down. oh, there is a way. i hate mentioning it because you must think of something sad. do it, please. let me see. i've got the very thing. yesterday, when my neighbour answered the bell, a man was there. the man said, "i'm terribly sorry. i just ran over your cat." - oh, that's sad. - the poor cat. then he said, "i'll replace your cat." she said, "okay, but can you catch mice?" i started out saying... i try. really, i do. but everything ends up so hilarious. i can't... i can't help... that will be enough of that. it's time to go home. oh, that is sad. oh, no. that's the saddest thing i ever heard. come along, children. must you really go? people come to see me all the time, and we have such a lovely time. then they go home, and i'm very, very sad about it. don't worry. we'll return soon. it was lovely. - keep an eye on him, bert. - i'll stay a while. thank you. uncle albert, i got a jolly joke i saved for just such an occasion. - want to hear it? - i'd be so grateful. righto. it's about me granddad. one night, he had a nightmare. so scared he chewed his pillow to bits. next morning, i says, "how do you feel?" he says, "a little down in the mouth." there's nothing like a good joke. no, and that's nothing like a good joke. bit late tonight, aren't you? i say, banks! is anything the matter, banks? banks! we're so glad you're home! we had the most wonderful afternoon. i know a man with a wooden leg named smith. we don't know anyone called smith. the second chap says, "what's his other leg's name?" and a party on the ceiling. children, be quiet. mary poppins says we'll go again. oh? oh, mary poppins said that? please return to your room. mary poppins, will you come with me? as you wish. mary poppins, i regret what i must say. good evening, george. is anything the matter? i'm afraid so. i have to dress for my rally. - i'd rather you be present. - of course, george. mary poppins, i confess i'm disappointed in you. she's for it. i've heard this before. i don't deny i'm partially responsible for allowing the children's worthless frivolity. but they must learn the seriousness of life. but they're only children. in light of what's happened... george, are you certain? i believe i am. a british bank is run with precision a british home requires nothing less tradition, discipline, and rules must be the tools without them disorder, chaos, moral disintegration in short, you have a ghastly mess i quite agree. the children must be moulded, shaped and taught that life's a looming battle to be faced and fought i'm disturbed to hear my children talking about popping into pictures, consorting with racehorse persons, fox hunting... i don't mind that. it's tradition. but parties on the ceiling? having tea parties on the ceiling? and other highly questionable outings... if they must go on outings these outings ought to be fraught with purpose, yes, and practicality these silly words like superca... super... supercal... supercalifragilisticexpialidocious. yes, well done. and popping through pictures have little use, fulfill no basic need they've got to learn the honest truth despite their youth they must learn about the life you lead exactly. they must feel the thrill of totting up a balanced book a thousand ciphers neatly in a row quite right. when gazing at a graph that shows the profits up their little cup of joy should overflow precisely. it's time they learnt to walk in your footsteps my footsteps. to tread your straight and narrow path with pride with pride. tomorrow, just as you suggest pressed and dressed jane and michael will be at your side splendid! you've hit the nail... at my side? where are we going? to the bank. - the bank? - yes. tomorrow's an important day. i'll see they have a proper night's sleep. did i say i'd take the children to the bank? it sounded that way. and why not? capital idea. just the medicine they need for all this sugary female thinking they get here. quite right. good idea. quite right. mary poppins, we won't let you go. what do you mean? weren't you sacked? sacked? i am never sacked. - oh, mary poppins! - hooray! neither am i a maypole. - but... - goats butt. birds fly. children going out with their father get some sleep. an outing with father? he's never taken us on an outing. he's never taken us anywhere. how did you manage it? you gave him the idea. how impertinent! me giving ideas to people? really. - where's he taking us? - the bank. michael, the city! father can point out the sights. most things he can. sometimes people, through no fault of their own, can't see past their nose. past their nose? yes. sometimes a little thing is quite important. oh, look. the cathedral. father passes that every day. early each day to the steps of st. paul's the little old bird woman comes in her own special way to the people she calls come buy my bags full of crumbs come feed the little birds show them you care and you'll be glad if you do their young ones are hungry their nests are so bare all it takes is tuppence from you feed the birds tuppence a bag tuppence, tuppence tuppence a bag feed the birds that's what she cries while overhead, her birds fill the skies all around the cathedral the saints and apostles look down as she sells her wares although you can't see it you know they are smiling each time someone shows that he cares though her words are simple and few listen, listen she's calling to you feed the birds tuppence a bag tuppence, tuppence tuppence a bag though her words are simple and few listen, listen she's calling to you feed the birds tuppence a bag tuppence tuppence tuppence a bag now, remember. be on your best behaviour. isn't it your bank? as a younger officer, it is, sort of. michael, look. it's her! - who? it's who? - the bird woman. just like mary poppins said. you see her? of course i can. do you think i can't see past the end of my nose? listen, she's saying it. feed the birds. tuppence a bag. of course she's saying it. - may we feed the birds? - whatever for? - i have tuppence. - just this once. waste your money on birds? certainly not. but mary poppins... i'm not interested in mary poppins nor in hearing her name. but it's my tuppence. michael, don't throw your money away! at the bank, i'll show you what to do. it's extremely interesting. hello, banks. what's all this about? my children. why are they here? they're opening an account, sir. how much money do you have? tuppence. i want it to feed the birds. tuppence! tuppence... precisely how i started. that's the elder mr dawes, a giant in the finance world. a giant? father, these are banks' children! they want to open an account! do they, boy? excellent. excellent. we can use more money to put to work for the bank. you have tuppence? may i be permitted to see it? it's for feeding the birds. feed the birds and what have you got? fat birds! but... if you invest your tuppence wisely in the bank safe and sound soon that tuppence safely invested in the bank will compound and you'll achieve that sense of conquest as your affluence expands in the hands of the directors who invest as propriety demands - may i, sir? - carry on, banks. you see, michael, you'll be part of railways through africa! exactly. dams across the nile. - talk about the ships. - fleets of ocean greyhounds. tell them more. majestic self-amortizing canals. it fires the imagination! plantations of ripening tea all from tuppence prudently, thriftily, frugally invested in the... to be specific in the dawes, tomes, mousley, grubbs fidelity fiduciary bank give me the money, boy. i want to feed the birds. banks! yes, sir. now, michael... when you deposit tuppence in a bank account go on! soon you'll see tell him more! that it blooms into credit of a generous amount semi-annually and you'll achieve that sense of stature as your influence expands to the high financial strata that established credit now commands you can purchase first and second trust deeds. imagine the foreclosures, bonds, chattels, dividends, shares. bankruptcies. debtor sales. opportunities. private enterprise. shipyards. - the mercantile. - collieries. tanneries. corporations, amalgamations. banks! while stand the banks of england, england stands. when fall the banks of england, england falls! you see, michael? all for the lack of... tuppence patiently cautiously trustingly invested in the... to be specific in the dawes, tomes, mousley, grubbs fidelity fiduciary bank welcome to our joyful family of investors. give it back! give it back! michael, behave... give it to him. give me back my money! give me back my money! the bank won't give someone their money. i'm getting mine. come along, every penny! and give me mine, too. stop all payments. stop all payments. give me my money! children, come back! - stop those children! - jane! michael! come on! stop those children! stop those children! aah! come with me. granny will hide you! aah! aah! aah! here, half a mo. leave my sister alone. your friend won't hurt you. bert, it's you. in the flesh and at your service. you're filthy. perhaps a smudge. it so happens today i'm a chimney sweep. oh, bert, we're so frightened. don't take on so. bert will take care of you. like i was your own father. who's after you? father. what? we went to his bank. we must have done something dreadful. the police and army were after us. michael, don't exaggerate. there must be some mistake. your dad loves you. no, not with the look he had on his face. he doesn't like us. that don't seem likely, does it? it's true. let's sit down. begging your pardon, but my heart goes out to your father. there he is in that cold, heartless bank, hemmed in by mounds of cold, heartless money. i don't like seeing living things caged up. father in a cage? cages come in all sizes and shapes, even bank-shaped. father's not in trouble, we are. sure about that, are you? you've got your mother to look after you, and mary poppins and constable jones and me. who looks after your father? when something happens, what does he do? fends for himself, he does. who does he tell? no one. don't blab his troubles. he pushes on at his job, uncomplaining, alone, and silent. he's not very silent. michael, be quiet. bert, does father really need our help? it's not my place to say. but fathers can always do with a bit of help. i'll take you home. chim chiminy chim chiminy chim chim cheree a sweep is as lucky as lucky can be chim chiminy chim chiminy chim chim cheroo good luck will rub off when i shakes hands with you or blow me a kiss and that's lucky, too now as the ladder of life has been strung you might think a sweep's on the bottommost rung though i spends me time in the ashes and smoke in this whole wide world there's no happier bloke chim chiminy chim chiminy chim chim cheree a sweep is as lucky as lucky can be chim chiminy chim chiminy chim chim cheroo good luck will rub off when i shakes hands with you chim chiminy chim chiminy chim chim cheree a sweep is as lucky as lucky can be chim chiminy chim chiminy chim chim cheroo good luck will rub off when i shakes hands with you ellen, whoever that is, send them away. i'm dreadfully late. yes, mum. i'll be leaving. please stay till father comes home! father will feel better if you shake hands with him. it's the children, mum. i thought they were with their father. you haven't been running off, have you? they haven't exactly been running away, mum. they've been frightened and should be looked after. oh, of course, mary poppins will... oh, no, it's her day off. ellen, would you... no, mum. i haven't done me brasses. ask mrs brill... not for 100 quid. it's baking day, and you know how cook is. what about you, sir? you've been so kind. me, mum? lord mayor's got a stopped-up chimney. how clever of you to know. our drawing room chimney is in the most ghastly condition. thank you so much. besides, it will amuse the children. the lord mayor's going to be terrible put out. thank you so much. i do appreciate it. i must hurry. our gallant ladies in prison are waiting for me to lead them in song. good-bye, my darlings. i choose me bristles with pride, yes, i do a broom for the shaft and a brush for the flue it's awfully dark and gloomy up there. you see how wrong people can be? that's a doorway to a place of enchantment. up where the smoke is all billowed and curled 'tween pavement and stars is the chimney sweep world when there's hardly no day nor hardly no night there's things half in shadow and halfway in light on the rooftops of london coo, what a sight i wish we could go up there. i like chimneys. rightly so. a chimney is a wondrous thing. it's built tall up there on the roof. the wind blows across her top and draws the smoke right up the flue. feel the pull on the end of that brush. it's like you've got a whale at the end of the line, isn't it? michael, be careful. things happen around fireplaces. oh, bother. michael! michael, come back down here! michael, michael, where are you? that's a bit awkward. stop putting ideas in their heads. there goes another one. shall i go after them? they can't gallivant up there like kangaroos. michael, everything's going to be... will you put your things on? hurry up. spit spot. thought you'd left. we didn't mean to. no harm done. truth is, this is a fortuitous circumstance. look there. a trackless jungle just waiting to be explored. why not, mary poppins? oh, please, mary poppins. oh, well... if we must, we must. fall in. look lively. look lively. jump to it. get in line. attention! slope arms! right turn! quick march! hello there! it's just good clean soot, michael. far as we go, right? not at all. what did i tell you? the world's at your feet, and who sees it but the birds, the stars, and the chimney sweeps? quite nice, but we've had enough night air. follow me, please. chim chiminy chim chiminy chim chim cheree when you're with a sweep you're in glad company nowhere is there a more happier crew than them what sings chim chim cheree, chim cheroo chim chiminy chim chim cheree chim cheroo cheroo! cheroo! cheroo! cheroo! cheroo! cheroo! cheroo! it's all me pals! step in time! step in time! step in time! step in time! step in time! step in time! come on, mateys, step in time! step in time! step in time, step in time step in time, step in time never need a reason never need a rhyme step in time, we step in time kick your knees up! kick your knees up, step in time kick your knees up, step in time never need a reason never need a rhyme kick your knees up, step in time round the chimney! round the chimney, step in time round the chimney, step in time never need a reason never need a rhyme round the chimney, step in time flap like a birdie! flap like a birdie, step in time flap like a birdie, step in time never need a reason never need a rhyme flap like a birdie, in time up on the railing! up on the railing, step in time up on the railing, step in time never need a reason never need a rhyme up on the railing, step in time over the rooftops! over the rooftops, step in time over the rooftops, step in time never need a reason never need a rhyme step in time over the rooftops, over the rooftops link your elbows! link your elbows, step in time link your elbows, step in time link your elbows, link your elbows link your elbows step in time, step in time step in time, step in time never need a reason never need a rhyme when you step in time you step in time mary poppins, step in time! there you go, mary poppins! lucky old bert! come on, mary poppins! here we go! ain't she marvellous? ain't she beautiful? lovely. tell your mum. hello, hello, hello! - more! more! - mary, do it again! here we go. we're being attacked by hottentots! aye, aye, sir. cheeky devils! give them what for! empty the shot lockers! ave, aye, sir! move along, mr binnacle. teach the beggars a lesson! gun ready, sir. stand by. fire! fire! well hit, sir! very well hit! aah! they're at it again! they're at it again, step in time at it again, step in time they're at it again, step in time ow! ow! step in time ow! step in time never need a reason never need a rhyme whoa! step in time oh, ellen, when you're free... votes for women, step in time votes for women, step in time not at the moment. votes for women votes for women! it's the master! it's the master, step in time it's the master what's all this? what's all this? what's all this, what's all this what's all this link your elbows, step in time what's all this? what's all this? kick your knees up kick your knees up... bert. good luck, guv'nor. lovely time. had an elegant time, guv'nor. good luck, guv'nor. father, every sweep shook your hand. you'll be so lucky! come along, children. spit spot. one moment, mary poppins. what's the meaning of this? i beg your pardon? will you explain all this? i'd like to make one thing clear. yes. i never explain anything. yes? banks here. mr dawes... i'm dreadfully sorry about what happened today. i can assure you that... tonight, sir? yes. we'll expect you at 9:00 precisely. without fail. without fail. why, yes, banks. it's extremely serious. we regret this action. we regret this action. you've been with us many years... you've been with us many years... as was your father. as was your father. yes, mr dawes. i shall be there at 9:00. a man has dreams of walking with giants. to carve his niche in the edifice of time. before the mortar of his zeal has a chance to congeal the cup's dashed from his lips. the flame's snuffed aborning. he's brought to wrack and ruin in his prime. life's a rum go, guv'nor. that's the truth. i think it's mary poppins. since she's come, things have happened to me. mary poppins? yes, of course! my world was calm well ordered... exemplary. then came this person with chaos in her wake and now my life's ambitions go with one fell blow it's quite a bitter pill to take that poppins woman did it! i know the person... mary poppins. she's the one what sings... a spoonful of sugar that is all it takes it changes bread and water into tea and cakes that's it exactly! changing bread into cakes, indeed. no wonder everything's higgledy-piggledy. a spoonful of sugar goes a long, long way have yourself a healthy helpin' every day a healthy helpin' of trouble. you know what she did? i realise it now. she tricked me into taking jane and michael to the bank. that's how the trouble started. tricked you into that? outrageous! a man as important as you? shameful! you're a man of high position, esteemed by your peers. and when your little tykes are cryin' you haven't time to dry their tears and see them grateful little faces smilin' up at you because their dad he always knows just what to do i mean, look... like you say, guv'nor... you've got to grind, grind, grind at that grindstone though childhood slips like sand through a sieve and all too soon they've up and grown and then they've flown and it's too late for you to give just that spoonful of sugar to help the medicine go down the medicine go down medicine go down well, goodbye, guv'nor. sorry to have troubled you. father. we're sorry about the tuppence. we didn't know it would cause you so much trouble. here, father. you can have the tuppence. will that make everything all right? thank you. come in! take your hat off, banks. good evening, gentlemen. get on with it. go on. yes, father. in 1773, an official of this bank unwisely loaned a large sum of money to finance a shipment of tea to the american colonies. do you know what happened? i do. as the ship lay in boston harbour, colonists dressed as red indians boarded, behaved rudely, and threw the tea overboard. this made the tea unsuitable for drinking, even for americans. precisely. the loan was defaulted. panic ensued within these walls. there was a run on the bank. from that time to this, there has not been a run on this bank. until today! a run, sir, caused by the disgraceful conduct of your son. do you deny it? no, sir. i shall gladly assume responsibility for my son. why are you waiting? get on with it. yes, father. no, not that! steady on. do you have anything to say? sir, they do say that when there's nothing to say, all you can say... confound it, banks! do you have anything to say? just one word, sir. yes? supercalifragilisticexpialidocious. what? supercalifragilisticexpialidocious. mary poppins was right. it does make you feel better. there's no such word. it is a perfectly good word. do you know what there's no such thing as? with due respect, there's no such thing as you! impertinence, sir! would you like to hear a marvellous joke? a real snapper. joke? snapper? jane and michael meet one day on the street. jane says, "i know a man with a wooden leg named smith." michael says, "what's the name of his other leg?" the man's gone mad. call the guard! supercalifragilisticexpialidocious. i'm feeling better! don't strike my father! there's the tuppence, the wonderful, fateful, supercalifragilisticexpialidocious tuppence. guard it well. good-bye! where are you going? i might pop through a chalk pavement picture or seize a horse off a merry-go-round or fly a kite. only poppins knows. - poppins? - my nanny. she sings that ridiculous song. a spoonful of sugar makes the medicine go down the medicine go down the medicine go down the medicine... mad as a march hare. a wooden leg named smith. a wooden leg named smith. a wooden le... father. father! father, come down! daddy! daddy, come back! wind's come around, blowing dead on from the west. she doesn't care what happens to us. she only promised to stay till the wind changed, right? bring my hat stand, please. mary poppins, don't you love us? what would happen to me if i loved all the children i said goodbye to? that's right. george w. banks, 17 cherry tree lane. about 6'1", i'd say. yes, we rang up his bank first thing. we discovered he'd been discharged last night. no telling what he'll do in a fit of despondency. wouldn't hurt to drag the river. there's a spot popular with jumpers. really, ellen! he seemed to have been a fine, stable gentleman. no hanky-panky. regular habits, as far as anyone knows. the medicine go down just a spoonful... it's him! or something similar. a little less noise on the premises. i can't understand the inspector. just a spoonful of sugar makes the medicine go down you didn't jump in the river. how sensible of you. it's all right, sir. he's been found. no, alive, or so i presume. he's kissing mrs banks. what happened at the bank? i've been sacked, flung into the street. a spoonful of sugar makes the medicine go down gone off his crumpet, that's what he's done. dotty as you please. what were you doing in the cellar? first, where are the children? jane! michael! your father's calling. it doesn't sound like father. jane! michael! run along. spit spot. you won't go, mary poppins, will you? spit spot. he mended it! it's wonderful! however did you manage it? with tuppence for paper and strings you can have your own set of wings with your feet on the ground you're a bird in flight with your fist holding tight to the string of your kite oh, oh, oh let's go fly a kite up to the highest height let's go fly a kite and send it soaring up through the atmosphere up where the air is clear oh, let's go fly a kite a proper kite needs a proper tail. that's what i said. go fly a kite. no, sir. i don't mean you personally. let's go fly a kite up to the highest height let's go fly a kite and send it soaring up through the atmosphere up where the air is clear oh, let's go fly a kite when you send it flying up there all at once you're lighter than air you can dance on the breeze over houses and trees with your fist holding tight to the string of your kite oh, oh, oh let's go fly a kite up to the highest height let's go fly a kite and send it soaring there you are, banks. congratulations. capital bit of humour. "wooden leg named smith," or jones, whatever it was. father died laughing. oh, i'm so sorry, sir. nonsense. nothing to be sorry about. never seen him happier. he left an opening for a new partner. congratulations. thank you very much indeed, sir. up through the atmosphere up where the air is clear oh, let's go fly a kite awk! that's gratitude for you. didn't even say goodbye. no, they didn't. look at them. they think more of their father than of you. that's as it should be. don't you care? practically perfect people never permit sentiment to muddle their thinking. is that so? mary poppins, you don't fool me. really? really. i know how you feel. if you think i'm keeping my mouth shut... that will be quite enough, thank you. goodbye, mary poppins. don't stay away too long. oh, oh, oh let's go fly a kite up to the highest height let's go fly a kite and send it soaring up through the atmosphere up where the air is clear oh, let's go fly a kite