two households, both alike in dignity, in fair verona where we lay our scene, from ancient grudge break to new mutiny, where civil blood makes civil hands unclean. from forth the fatal loins of these two foes... a pair of star-crossed lovers take their life, whose misadventured piteous overthrows do with their death... bury their parents'strife. but the quarrel is between our masters and us their men. ah, 'tis all one. here come the house of the montagues. ah, good morrow. good morrow to you, sir. quarrel, i will back thee. right. fail me not. do you bite your thumb at us, sir? i do bite my thumb, sir. do you bite your thumb at us, sir? no, sir. i do not bite my thumb at you, sir, but i do bite my thumb, sir. do you quarrel, sir? quarrel, sir? no, no, no, sir. if you do, sir, i am for you. i serve as good a man as you. no better? yes, better, sir. you lie. draw! draw if you be men! gregory, remember thy swashing blow! kill the capulets! part, fools! put up your swords! you know not what you do! the prince hath expressly forbid this bandying in verona streets! here come the capulets! tybalt, capulet's kinsman! what, art thou drawn among these heartless hinds? turn thee, benvolio. look upon thy death. i do but keep the peace. put up thy sword or manage it to part these men with me. what, drawn and talk of peace? i hate the word, as i hate hell, all montagues and thee. have at thee, cowards! capulet! montague! capulet! now hie thee home, fragment. you villain! capulet! give me my long sword! ho! capulet! down to the market square! capulet! follow me! follow me! kill that villain montague! my noble uncle! my noble uncle! what? my sword! my sword! thou shalt not stir a foot to seek a foe! hold me not! let me go! montague! montague! kill the villain! i'll strike thee, coward. the prince! the prince is coming! put down your weapons! the prince! the prince! here comes the prince! put your weapons down! the prince! rebellious subjects, enemies to peace, throw your mistempered weapons to the ground... down with your weapons. and hear the sentence of your moved prince. three civil brawls bred of an airy word, by thee, old capulet... no, no. and montague... have thrice disturbed the quiet of our streets. if ever you disturb our streets again, your lives shall pay the forfeit of the peace. for this time all the rest depart away! you, capulet, shall go along with me. and, montague, come you this afternoon. once more, on pain of death, all men depart. where is romeo? saw you him today? right glad i am he was not at this fray. madam, an hour before the worshipped sun peered forth the golden window of the east, a troubled mind drove me to walk abroad: where, underneath the grove of sycamore so early walking did i see your son. towards him i made; but he was ware of me, and stole into the cover of the wood. many a morning hath he there been seen. see, where he comes. so please you, step aside. i'll know his grievance, or be much denied. i would thou wert so happy by thy stay, to hear true shrift. come, madam. let's away. good morrow, cousin. is the day so young? but new struck nine. ay me! sad hours seem long. was that my father that went hence so fast? it was. what sadness lengthens romeo's hours? not having that, which having makes them short. hmm. hmm! but, romeo... farewell, coz. god's me, what fray was here? yet tell me not, for i have heard it all. here's much to do with hate, but more with love. soft, i will go along. but montague is bound as well as l, in penalty alike, and 'tis not hard, i think, for men as old as we to keep the peace. oh... of honorable reckoning are you both, and pity 'tis you lived at odds so long: but, but now, my lord, what say you to my suit? but saying o'er what i have said before, my child is yet a stranger in the world. she hath not seen the change of fourteen years. let two more summers wither in their pride, 'ere we may think her ripe to be a bride. younger than she are happy mothers made. and too soon marred are those so early made. the earth hath swallowed all my hopes but she, she is the hopeful lady of my earth. but woo her, gentle paris, get her heart, my will to her consent is but a part. oh, peter! this night i hold an old accustomed feast whereto i have invited many a guest. such as i love, you among the store, one more, most welcome, makes my number more. nurse, where's my daughter? call her forth to me. now, by my maidenhead at 12 years old, i bade her come. where is the girl? juliet! juliet! where is the girl? juliet! where is the girl? juliet! how now, who calls? your mother! your lady mother! juliet, it's your mother, your lady mother. make haste, girl. make haste. where were you? madam, i am here. what is your will? this is the matter. make haste, girls. come on, come on. nurse, um... give leave awhile, we must talk in secret. nurse, come back again. i have remembered me. thou's hear our counsel. thou knowest my daughter's of a pretty age. i can tell her age unto an hour. she's not fourteen. i'll lay fourteen of my teeth. and yet to my teen be it spoke, i have but four, she's not fourteen. how long is it to lammastide? a fortnight and odd days. even or odd, of all the days of the year, come lammas eve at night shall she be fourteen. susan and she-- god rest all christian souls were of an age. well, susan is with god. she was too good for me. but, as i said, on lammas eve at night shall she be fourteen. that shall she, marry! i remember it well. my lord and you were then at mantua! nay, i do bear a brain. for then she could, she could stand high lone. nay, by the road she could have run and waddled all about, for even the day before she broke her brow; and then my husband-- god rest his soul, 'a were a merry man-- took up the child. "yea," quoth he, "dost thou fall upon thy face? "thou wilt fall backward when thou hast more wit; wilt thou not, jule?" nurse! and by my holiday, the pretty wretch left crying and said, "ay." enough of this, i pray thee hold thy peace. yes, madam. now, juliet. god mark thee to his grace thou was the prettiest babe that 'er i nurs'd. and i might live to see thee married once, i have my wish. marry, that "marry" is the very theme i came to talk of. tell me, daughter juliet, how stands your disposition to be married? it is an honor that i dream not of. an honor, were i not thy only nurse, i would say thou hadst sucked wisdom from my teat. well, think of marriage now. younger than you, here in verona, ladies of esteem, are made already mothers. by my count i was your mother much upon these years that you are now a maid. oh, yes, i remember. thus then, in brief... the valiant paris seeks you for his love. a man, young lady! lady, such as all the world-- why he's a man of wax. verona's summer hath not such a flower. nay, he's a flower in faith. what say you? can you love the gentleman? madam! madam! the guests have come, supper serv'd up, you call'd, my young lady ask'd for! we follow. speak briefly, can you like of paris' love? i'll look to like, if looking liking move. but no more deep will i endart mine eye, than your consent gives strength to make it fly. juliet, the county stays. madam, i come. go, girl, seek happy nights for happy days. give me a case to put my visage in; a visor for a visor. what care i what curious eye doth quote deformities. here are the beetle-brows shall blush for me. what, shall this speech be spoke for our excuse? or shall we on without apology? the date is out of such prolixity. let them measure us by what they will. we'll measure them a measure and be gone. come, knock and enter, and no sooner in, but every man betake him to his legs. and we mean well in going to this masque, but 'tis no wit to go. why, may one ask? i dreamt a dream tonight. ho, and so did i. well, what was yours? that dreamers often lie. in bed asleep while they do dream things true. oh, then i see queen mab hath been with you. queen mab? she is...she is the fairies' midwife. and she comes in state no bigger than an agate stone on the forefinger of an alderman, drawn with a team of little atomies athwart men's noses as they lie asleep. her wagon spokes are made of long spinner's legs; and the cover, of the wings of grasshoppers; the traces of the smallest spider's web; and the collars, mmm, of the moonshine's watery beams; her whip, crack! is a cricket's bone; the lash of film; and in this state she gallops night by night through lovers' brains, and then they dream of love, o'er ladies' lips, who straight on kisses dream, which oft the angry mab with blisters plagues, because their breaths with, er, sweetmeats tainted are. snd sometime comes she with a tithe-pig's tail, tickling the parson's nose as he lies asleep, and dreams he of another benefice. amen. sometimes she driveth o'er a soldier's neck, and then dreams he of cutting foreign throats, of breaches, ambuscadoes, spanish blades, drums in his ear, at which he starts and wakes; and being thus frighted tries a prayer or two... and sleeps again. this is that very mab that plaits the manes of horses in the night, and bakes the elf-locks in foul sluttish hairs, which once untangled much misfortune bodes. this is the hag, when maids lie on their backs, that presses them and learns them first to bear making them women of good carriage. this is she... this is she that... this...is she. peace, mercutio, peace. thou talk'st of nothing. thou talk'st of nothing. true. true, i talk of dreams; which are the children of an idle brain... begot of nothing but vain fantasy; which is as thin of substance as the air, and more inconstant than the wind who woos even now the frozen bosom of the north, and being angered puffs away from thence, turning his side to the dew-dropping south. this wind you talk of blows us from ourselves. strike drum. come, lusty gentlemen. romeo, we shall arrive too late. i fear too early... for my mind misgives... some consequence, yet hanging in the stars, shall bitterly begin his fearful date with this night's revels, and expire the term of a despised life closed in my breast, by some vile forfeit of untimely death. but he that hath the steerage of my course... direct my sail. enter my poor house. vido, vido, welcome. oh, my lovely helena, my lovely niece. welcome all! be merry, gentlemen. be lively, ladies. ahoy! ahoy! welcome, gentlemen. i have seen the day that i have worn a visor and could tell a whispering tale in a fair lady's ear, such as would please. 'tis gone, 'tis gone. you are welcome, gentlemen. ladies, ho, ho! she doth teach the torches to burn bright. it seems she hangs upon the cheek of night as a rich jewel in an ethiop's ear;, beauty too rich for use, for earth too dear. so shows a snowy dove trooping with crows, as yonder lady o'er her fellow shows. did my heart love till now? forswear it sight, for i ne'er saw true beauty till this night. this by his voice should be a montague. uncle, this is a montague, our foe; a villain that is hither come in spite, to scorn at our solemnity this night. young romeo is it? dares the slave come hither covered in an antic face, to fear and scorn at our solemnity? 'a bears him like a courtly gentleman; and to say truth, verona brags of him to be a virtuous and well managed youth. i would not for the wealth of all this town here in my house do him disparagement. therefore have patience, take no note of him. the moureska! the moureska! why, uncle, 'tis a shame! go to. you are a saucy boy. you'll make a mutiny among my guests! am i the master here, or you? i will not endure him. you will not endure! he shall be endured! or i know what! well said, my hearts. you're a princox. be quiet or... for shame! i'll make you quiet. leonardo will sing! leonardo, i pray thee, sing. what is a youth? impetuous fire what is a maid? ice and desire the world wags on a rose will bloom it then will fade so does a youth so does the fairest maid comes the time when one sweet smile has its season for a while then love's in love with me some may think only to marry others will tease and tarry mine is the very best parry cupid he rules us all caper the caper, sing me the song death will come soon to hush us along sweeter than honey and bitter as gall love is a pastime that never will pall sweeter than honey and bitter as gall cupid he rules us all a rose will bloom and then will fade so does a youth so does the fairest maid if i profane with my unworthiest hand this holy shrine, the gentle sin is this; my lips, two blushing pilgrims, ready stand to smooth the rough touch with a gentle kiss. good pilgrim, you do wrong your hand too much which mannerly devotion shows in this; for saints have hands that pilgrims' hands do touch and palm to palm is holy palmers' kiss. have not saints lips, and holy palmers too? ay, pilgrim, lips that they must use in prayer. o then, dear saint, let lips do what hands do... they pray, grant thou, lest faith turn to despair. saints do not move, though grants for prayers' sake. then move not... while my prayer's effect i take. thus from my lips, by thine, my sin is purged. then have my lips the sin that they have took. sin from my lips! o trespass sweetly urged! give me my sin again. a rose will bloom it then will fade so does a youth so does the fairest maid juliet! lady juliet! nurse? your mother craves a word with you. make haste, make haste! what is her mother? hmm. merry, bachelor, her mother is the lady of the house, and a good lady, and wise, and virtuous; i nursed her daughter that you talked withal. i tell you he that shall lay hold of her shall have the chinks. is she a capulet? ah, dear account! my life is my foe's debt. what, ho, my mistresses? what, will you be gone? it seems so, poor god, it is so very late. we'll call it early, by and by. good night, sweet, my lady juliet. come hither, nurse. what is yon gentleman? count paris. no. what's he that follows there? oh! i know not. go, ask his name. hmm. romeo, of the house of montague. what? his name is romeo, and a montague; the only son of your great enemy. my only love sprung from my only hate, too early seen unknown, and known too late! prodigious birth of love it is to me that i must love a loathed enemy. juliet! my lady juliet! madam! romeo! juliet! romeo! lady juliet! juliet! romeo! romeo! romeo! romeo! romeo! romeo! romeo! romeo! - romeo! - romeo! he is wise, and on my life hath stolen him home to bed. he leaped this orchard wall. call, good mercutio. romeo! romeo! passion! lover! o-hooo! madman! o-hooo! romeo! he heareth not, he stirreth not, he moveth not. the ape is dead. he jests at scars that never felt a wound. romeo, it's all right. but soft, what light through yonder window breaks? it is my lady, oh, it is my love. o that she knew she were. she speaks, yet she says nothing. what of that? her eye discourses, i will answer it. i am too bold, 'tis not to me she speaks. two of the fairest stars in all the heavens, having some business, do entreat her eyes to twinkle in their spheres till they return. see how she leans her cheek upon her hand. oh, that i were a glove upon that hand, that i might touch that cheek. ay me! she speaks. oh, speak again, bright angel. o romeo, romeo, wherefore art thou, romeo? deny thy father, and refuse thy name. or if thou wilt not, be but sworn my love, and i'll no longer be a capulet. shall i hear more, or shall i speak at this? 'tis but thy name that is my enemy. thou art thyself, though not a montague. what is montague? it is nor hand nor foot, nor arm nor face nor any other part belonging to a man. o be some other name. what's in a name? that which we call a rose by any other name would smell as sweet; so romeo would, were he not romeo called, retain that dear perfection which he owes without that title. romeo, doff thy name, and for that name which is no part of thee, take all myself. i'll take thee at thy word. call me but love, and i'll be new baptized; henceforth i never will be romeo. what man art thou, that thus bescreened in night so stumblest on my counsel? by a name i know not how to tell thee who i am. my name, dear saint, is hateful to myself, because it is an enemy to thee. had i it written, i would tear the word. my ears have not yet drunk a hundred words of that tongue's utterance, yet i know the sound. art thou not romeo, and a montague? neither, fair maid, if either thee dislike. how cam'st thou hither, tell me and wherefore? the orchard walls are high and hard to climb, and the place death, considering who thou art, if any of my kinsmen find thee here. with love's light wings did i o'er perch these walls, for stony limits cannot hold love out, and what love can do, that dares love attempt. therefore thy kinsmen are no stop to me. if they do see thee, they will murder thee. i have night's cloak to hide me from their eyes. and but thou love me... let them find me here my life were better ended by their hate, than death prorogued, wanting of thy love. dost thou love me? i know thou wilt say ay, and i will take thy word; yet if thou swearest, thou mayst prove false; at lovers' perjuries they say jove laughs. o gentle romeo, if thou dost love, pronounce it faithfully. or if thou thinkest i am too quickly won, i'll frown and be perverse, and say thee nay, so thou wilt woo but else not for the world. in truth, fair montague, i am too fond... and therefore thou mayst think my haviour light. no. but trust me, gentleman, i'll prove more true than those that have more cunning to be strange. i should have been more strange, i must confess, but that thou overheard'st, ere i was ware, my true love's passion; therefore pardon me, and not impute this yielding to light love, which the dark night hath so discovered. lady, by yonder blessed moon, i swear. oh, swear not by the moon, th'inconstant moon, that monthly changes in her circled orb, lest that thy love prove likewise variable. what shall i swear by? do not swear at all. or if thou wilt... swear by thy gracious self, which is the god of my idolatry, and i'll believe thee. if my heart's dear love, i swear... oh, juliet! sweet, good night. this bud of love by summer's ripening breath may prove a beauteous flower when next we meet. good night, good night. as sweet repose and rest come to thy heart as that within my breast. o, wilt thou leave me so unsatisfied? what satisfaction canst thou have tonight? th' exchange of thy love's faithful vow for mine. i gave thee mine before thou didst request it. and yet i would it were to give again. wouldst thou withdraw it? for what purpose, love? but to be frank and give it thee again. and yet i wish but for the thing i have, my bounty is as boundless as the sea, my love as deep. the more i give to thee, the more i have, for both are infinite. juliet! anon, good nurse! sweet montague, be true. madam! stay but a little, i will come again. madam! lady juliet! o blessed, blessed night! oh! i am afeard, being in night, all this is but a dream, too flattering-sweet to be substantial. three words, dear romeo, and good night indeed. if that thy bent of love be honorable, thy purpose marriage, send me word tomorrow, by one that i'll procure to come to thee. where and what time thou wilt perform the rite, and all my fortunes at thy foot i'll lay and follow thee, my lord, throughout the world. madam! i come, anon. but if thou meanest not well, i do beseech thee-- lady juliet! by and by i come! to cease thy suit and leave me to my grief. tomorrow will i send. so thrive my soul. a thousand times good night! romeo! at what o'clock tomorrow shall i send to thee? at the hour of nine. i will not fail. 'tis twenty years till then. romeo! i have forgot why i did call thee back. let me stand here till thou remember it. i shall forget, to have thee still stand there, remembering how i love thy company. and i'll still stay, to have thee still forget, forgetting any other home but this. good night, good night! parting is such sweet sorrow that i shall say good night till it be morrow. friar laurence! what early tongue so sweet saluteth me? good morrow, father! young son, it argues a distempered head so soon to bid good morrow to thy bed. therefore thy earliness doth me assure thou art uproused with some distemperature. or if not so, then here i put it right our romeo hath not been in bed tonight. the last is true. the sweeter rest was mine. god pardon sin! wast thou with rosaline? with rosaline, my ghostly father, no. i have forgot that name and that name's woe. that's my good son. well, where hast thou been then? i'll tell thee ere thou ask it me again. i have been feasting with mine enemy, where on a sudden one hath wounded me. be plain, good son, and homely in thy drift. riddling confession finds but riddling shrift. then plainly know my heart's dear love is set, on the fair daughter of rich capulet. as mine on hers, so hers is set on mine, and all combined, save what thou must combine by holy marriage. when and where, and how we met, we woo'd, and made exchange of vow, i'll tell thee as we pass. but this i pray, that thou consent to marry us today. hmmm? holy saint francis! is rosaline, that thou didst love so dear, so soon forsaken? thou doest not mock me, father! young men's love then lies not truly in their hearts, but in their eyes. hear me, father. jesu maria! what a deal of brine hath washed thy sallow cheeks for rosaline! and art thou changed? pronounce this sentence then. women may fall when there's no strength in men. thou chidst me oft for loving rosaline. doting, not for loving, pupil mine. yes, for loving and, and badest me bury love. not in a grave to lay one in, another out to have. come, young waverer, come, go with me. in one respect i'll thy assistant be. o father! for this alliance may so happy prove to turn your households' rancor to pure love. o, let us hence! i stand on sudden haste. shh! wisely and slow, they stumble that run fast. where the devil should this romeo be? came he not home tonight? huh? came he not home tonight? who? romeo. o no, not to his father's. i spoke with his man. hey, tybalt, the kinsman to old capulet, hath sent a letter to his father's house. a challenge, on my life. romeo will answer it. any man that can write may answer a letter. nay, he will answer the letter's master, how he dares, being dared. alas, poor romeo, he is already dead; stabbed with a white wench's black eye; run through the ear with a love song; the very pin of his heart cleft with the blind bow-boy's buttshaft. and is he a man to encounter tybalt? why, what is tybalt! more than prince of cats, i can tell you. ah, good morrow to you both. that we should be thus afflicted with these strange flies, these fashionmongers, these pardonnez moi's. ah, signor romeo, bonjour. bonjour. there's a french salutation to your french slop. you gave us the counterfeit fairly last night. what counterfeit did i give you? the slip, sir, the slip, can you not conceive? pardon, good mercutio. my business was great-- in such a case as mine a man may strain courtesy. come between us, good benvolio; my wit faints. thy wit is very bitter sweeting it is most sharp sauce. why, is not this better now than groaning for love? now art thou sociable, now art thou romeo; now art thou what thou art, by art as well as by nature. for this driveling love is like a great natural that runs malling up and down to hide his bauble in a hole. stop there, stop there. thou desirest me to stop in my tale against the hair? thou wouldst else have made thy tale large. no, no, no, thou art deceived; for i was come to the whole depth of my tale, and meant to occupy the argument no longer. here's goodly gear. here's a fine barge. a sail. a sail, a sail. two, two; a shirt and a smock. peter. anon. my fan, peter. good, peter, to hide her face, for her fan's the fairer of the two. god ye good morrow, gentlemen. god ye good den, fair gentlewoman. is it good den, i pray? well, 'tis no less i tell you, for the bawdy hand of the dial is now upon the prick of noon. out upon you, what a man are you? one, gentlewoman, that god hath made himself to mar. by my troth it is well said, for himself to mar quoth 'a? gentleman, can any of you tell me where i may find young romeo? romeo, romeo. i am the youngest of that name for fault of a worse. if you be he, sir, i desire some conference with you. she will indite him to some supper. a bawd, a bawd. a bawd! you filthy varmint you! here she comes! mercutio, no! an old hare hoar and an old hare hoar is very good meat, in lent but a hare that is a hoar is too much for a score when it hoars ere it be spent farewell, ancient lady. scurvy knave, scurvy knave. i'm none of his flirt-gills. i'm none of his skein mates. er, cur, lousy knave, lousy, lousy knave. i pray you, sir. what saucy merchant was this that was so full of his property? a gentleman, nurse, that loves to hear himself talk, and will speak more in a minute than he will stand to in a month. i'll take him down, an 'a were lustier than he is, and twenty such jacks; and if i cannot, i'll find those that shall. and thou must stand by too and suffer every knave to use me at his pleasure. punk rampant! pray you, sir, a word. beef wit. my young lady bid me inquire you out. what she did bid me say, i will keep to myself;, but first let me tell ye, if ye should lead her in a fool's paradise-- nurse. shh! as they say, it were a very gross kind of behavior;, for the gentlewoman is young; and therefore if you should deal double with her, it were an ill thing to be offered to any gentlewoman, and very weak dealing. nurse, commend me to thy lady and mistress, i protest unto thee. bid her devise, some means to come to shrift this afternoon, and there she shall at friar laurence's cell be shrived and married. here's for thy pains. no, no truly, sir, not a penny. go to, i say you shall. no. well... sir, my mistress is the sweetest lady. lord, lord, when she were a little prating thing. good-bye. oh! o there is a noble man in town, one paris, that would fain lay knife aboard. i anger her sometimes and say that paris is the properer man. nurse, commend me to thy lady. a thousand times. the clock struck nine when i did send the nurse, in half an hour she promised to return... perchance she cannot meet him; ahh, that's not so, oh, she's lame, love's heralds should be thoughts! had she affections and warm youthful blood, she would be as swift in motion as a ball. but old folks, many feign as they were dead, unwieldy, slow, heavy... and pale as lead. o god, she comes. o honey nurse, what news? o lord, why look'st thou sad? though news be sad, yet tell them merrily. send the man away. peter, stay at the gate. go on. hast thou met with him? oh, i am aweary. give me leave awhile. fie, how my bones ache! ooh! sweet, sweet... sweet nurse. tell me, what says my love? your love says like an honest gentleman, and courteous, and kind, and handsome, and, i warrant him, a virtuous-- where is your mother? where is my mother? why, she is within. where should she be? how oddly thou repliest! "your love says like an honest gentleman, where is your mother?" oh, god's lady, are you so hot? marry, come up i trow. is this the poultice for my aching bones? henceforward do your messages yourself. here's such a coil! come! what says romeo? have you got leave to go to shrift today? i have. then, hie you hence to friar laurence's cell, there stays a husband to make you a wife. now comes the wanton blood up in your cheeks. they'll be in scarlet straight at any news. hie you to church! i'll to dinner. honest nurse, farewell! so smile the heavens upon this holy act, that after-hours with sorrow chide us not. amen, amen. come what sorrow can, it cannot countervail the exchange of joy that one short minute gives me in her sight. these violent delights have violent ends, and in their triumph die, like fire and powder, which as they kiss consume. the sweetest honey is loathsome in its own... deliciousness. deliciousness. and in the taste confounds the... appetite. appetite. therefore love moderately... long love doth so. ah, here comes the lady. o, so light a foot will ne'er wear out the everlasting flint. juliet! good even to my ghostly confessor. romeo shall thank thee, daughter, for us both. ah, juliet, if the measure of thy joy be heaped like mine, that thy skill be more to blazon it, then sweeten with thy breath this neighbor air. they are but beggars that can count their worth. but my true love is grown to such excess, i cannot sum up sum of half my wealth. come, come with me... we will make short work. for, by your leaves, you shall not stay alone till holy church incorporate two in one. i pray thee, good mercutio, let's retire. the day is hot. the capulets abroad! if we meet we shall not 'scape a brawl. for now these hot days is the mad lood stirring. mercutio,let's retire. thou art like one of these fellows that when he enters the confines of a tavern claps me his sword n the table, and says, "god send me no need of thee" and by the operation of the second cup, draws him on the drawer, when indeed there is no need. am i like such a fellow? nay and there were two such we should have none shortly for the one would kill the other. why thou hast quarreled with a manfor coughing in the street because he hath wakened thy dog that hath lain asleep in the sun. and thou wilt tutor me from quarreling! mercutio... by my head, here come the capulets. by my heel, i care not. gentlemen, good den. good den. a word with one of you. and but one word with one of us. couple it with something make it a word and a blow. you shall find me apt enough to that, sir and you will give me occasion. can you not take some occasion without the giving? mercutio, thou consortest with romeo. consort? what dost thou make us minstrels? an you make minstrels of us, you look to hear nothing but discords. here's my fiddlestick. here's that shall make you dance. zounds! consort! we talk here in the public haunt of men. either withdraw unto some private place, or reason coldly of your grievances, or else depart; here all eyes gaze on us. men's eyes were made to look, and let them gaze. i will not budge for no man's pleasure, i. well, peace be with you, sir, here comes my man. romeo, the love i bear thee can afford no better term than thisthou art a villain. tybalt, the reason that i have to love thee doth much excuse the appertaining rage to such a greetingvillain am i none. therefore farewell, i see thou knowest not me. boy... this shall not excuse the injuries thou hast done me therefore turn and draw. i do protest i never injured thee, but love thee better than thou canst devise. till thou shalt know the reason of my love. and so, good capulet, which name i tender as dearly as mine own, be satisfied. no, mercutio. o calm, dishonorable, vile submission! no, mercutio, no! leave me... tybalt, you ratcatcher! what wouldest thou have with me? good king of cats, nothing but one of your nine lives, that i mean tomake bold withal... and as you shall use me hereafter... dry-beat the rest of the eight. please, good mercutio. will you pluck your sword out of his pilcher by the ears? make haste, lest mine be about your ears ere it be out. i am for you, sir. gentle mercutio, put thy rapier up. come, come. benvolio, beat down their weapons! gentlemen, for shame! forbear this outrage! the prince expressly hath forbid this bandying in verona streets. leave us! begone, begone... i am hurt. i am hurt. what! art thou hurt? a scratch, a scratch, marry 'tis enough. courage, man, the hurt cannot be much. no, 'tis not so deep as a well, nor so wide as a church door, but 'tis enough; you ask for me tomorrow, and you shall find me a grave man. where is my page? go, villain, and fetch me a surgeon. fetch me a surgeon! why the devil came you between us? i was hurt under your arm. i thought all for the best, i... help me into some house, benvolio, or i shall faint. a plague o' both your houses! they have made worms' meat of me. i have it, and soundly too... your houses! he jests! brave mercutio's dead. this day's black fate, on more days doth depend. this but begins the woe others must end. he gone in triumph! and mercutio slain! away to heaven, respective lenity, and fire-eyed fury be my conduct now! this way! now, tybalt... take the villain back again, that late thou gav'st me; for mercutio's soul is but a little way above our heads, staying for thine to keep him company: either thou, or l, or both, must go with him! let him go! let him go! sword, romeo. o thou wretched boy, that didst consort him here, shalt with him hence. this shall determine that. hit the feet, romeo! protect the eyes, romeo! give me your sword. watch his feet! give me the sword! the sword! the sword! give it to me! your sword, romeo! romeo, away, be gone. the citizens are up. stand not amazed, the prince will doom thee death, if thou art taken. hence, go away! oh, i am fortune's fool! oh, romeo! away, away! a curse on the montagues! the best friend i had, oh, courteous tybalt, honest gentleman, that ever i should live to see thee dead! oh, god! did romeo's hand shed tybalt's blood? it did, it did, alas the day, it did! oh, nurse, oh, serpent heart, hid with a flow'ring face! was ever book containing such vile matter so fairly bound? there's no faith, no trust, no honesty in men; all perjured, all forsworn, all naught, all dissemblers. shame come to romeo. blistered be thy tongue for such a wish. he was not born to shame. upon his brow shame is ashamed to sit. will you speak well of him that killed your cousin? shall i speak ill of him that is my husband? poor my lord, what tongue shall smooth thy name when i thy three-hours wife have mangled it? but wherefore villain, didst thou kill my cousin? capulet! to the prince! speak, benvolio, speak! go on, speak. prince! as thou art true, for blood of ours shed blood of montague. benvolio, who began this bloody fray? tybalt, here slain. no! romeo did speak him fair, bid him bethink how nice the quarrel was, and urged withal your high displeasure. it's true, prince. the picture makes him false. he speaks not true. i beg for justice, which thou, prince must give. romeo slew tybalt, romeo must not live. romeo slew him. he slew mercutio. who now the price of his dear blood doth owe? not romeo, prince... he was mercutio's friend. his fault concludes but what the law should end. the life of tybalt! and for that offense, immediately we do exile him hence. let romeo ence in haste, else, when he's found... that hour is his last. ah, banishment... be merciful, say death! do not say banishment. arise. one knocks; good romeo, hide thyself. who's there? who knocks so hard? whence come you? what's your will? let me come in, and you shall know my errand. i come from lady juliet. welcome then. holy friar, o tell me, holy friar, where's my lady's lord, where's romeo? there, on the ground. with his own tears made drunk. there is no world without verona walls. even so lies she, blubbering and weeping, weeping and blubbering. stand up! stand and you be a man. for juliet's sake, for her sake, rise and stand. why should you fall into so deep an 'ole? nurse. ah, sir, death's the end of all. speakst thou of juliet? how is it with her? does she not think me an old murderer? where is she? how doth she? what says my concealed lady to our canceled love? she says nothing, sir, but weeps and weeps, and tybalt calls, and then on romeo cries. as if that name did murder her. o tell me, friar, tell me, in what vile part of this anatomy doth my name lodge? tell me that i may sack the hateful mansion! hold thy desperate hand. by heavens! leave it! thou hast amazed me. thou a man? thy form cries out thou art. thy tears are womanish, thy wild acts denote the unreasonable fury of a beast. hast thou slain tybalt? wilt thou slay thyself, and slay thy lady, that in thy life lives, by doing damned hate upon thyself? rouse thee, man... thy juliet is alive. there art thou happy. tybalt would kill thee, but thou slewest tybalt; there art thou happy. the law that threatened death becomes thy friend, and turns it to exile; there art thou happy. a pack of blessings light upon thy back... ascend her chamber, hence and comfort her. but look thou stay not till the watch be set, for then thou canst not pass to mantua, where thou shalt live till we find a time to blaze your marriage, reconcile your friends, beg pardon of the prince, and call thee home, with twenty hundred thousand times more joy than thou wentest forth in lamentation. go before, nurse... commend me to thy lady, and bid her hasten all the house to bed, which heavy sorrow makes them apt unto romeo's coming. wilt thou be gone? it is not yet near day. it was the nightingale, and not the lark, that pierced the fearful hollow of thine ear. nightly she sings on yond pomegranate tree. oh, believe me, love, it was the nightingale. it was the lark... the herald of the morn, no nightingale. night's candles are burnt out... and jocund day stands tiptoe on the misty mountaintops. i must be gone and live, or stay and die. yond light is not daylight... i know it, i. therefore stay yet, thou needst not to be gone. oh, let me be taken, let me be put to death. i am content so thou wilt have it so. i'll say yon gray is not the morning's eye, nor that is not the lark whose notes do beat the vaulty heavens so high above our heads. i have more care to stay than will to go. come death, and welcome, juliet wills it so. it is... it is, hie hence, be gone away. romeo, it is. it is the lark that sings so out of tune, straining harsh discords, and unpleasing sharps. some say the lark makes sweet division; oh, this doth not so, for she divideth us. so now be gone, more light and light it grows. more light and light, more dark and dark our woes. madam! your lady mother comes to your chamber. nurse. your lady mother is coming to your chamber. the day is broke, look about. oh, art thou gone so, my husband, friend? i must hear from thee every day in the hour, for in a minute there are many days, o by this count i shall be much in years, ere i again behold my romeo. i will omit no opportunity that may convey my greetings, love, to thee. oh, think'st thou we shall ever meet again? i doubt it not, and all these woes shall serve for sweet discourses in our time to come. farewell, farewell, one kiss and i'll descend. adieu. adieu! oh, god! we will have vengeance for it, fear thou not... no! then weep no more. i'll send to one in mantua, where that same banished runagate doth live shall give him such an unaccustomed dram, that he shall soon keep tybalt company. no! but now i'll tell thee joyful tidings, girl. well, then thou hast a careful father, one who to put thee from thy heaviness hath sorted out a sudden day of joy. and joy comes well in such a needy time. marry, my child, early next thursday morn, the gallant, young and noble prince, the county paris, at st. peter's church, shall happily make thee there a joyful bride. now by st. peter's church, and peter too, he shall not make me there a joyful bride! no! no! so, it is concluded. son, paris. how now, wife, have you delivered to her our decree? ay, sir, but she will none, she gives you thanks. i would the fool were married to her grave. soft... take me with you. take me with you, wife. how? will she none? doth she not give us thanks? is she not proud? doth she not count her blessed, unworthy as she is, that we have wrought so worthy a gentleman to be her bridegroom? wretched fool! let me see her! ungrateful baggage! say what thou wilt, thou shalt not house with me! fie! what, are you mad? hang thee, young baggage! disobedient wretch! i tell thee what, get thee to church on thursday, or never after look me in the face. oh, father, good father, i beseech you. speak not, reply not, do not answer me. my fingers itch. you are to blame, my lord, to rate her so. and why, my lady wisdom? hold your tongue! good prudence, smatter with your gossips, go! i speak no treason. may not one speak? speak! you mumbling fool! utter your gravity o'er a gossip's bowl, for here we need it not. you are too hot. god's bread, it makes me mad. thursday's near. lay hand on heart, advise. an you be mine, i give you to my friend; an you be not, hang, beg, starve, die in the streets. no! for by my soul, i'll ne'er acknowledge thee, for what is mine shall never do thee good. father! trust to't, bethink you, i'll not be forsworn. oh, no! no! oh sweet, my mother, cast me not away. delay this marriage for a month, a week, oh! talk not to me, for i'll not speak a word. do as thou wilt, for i have done with thee. oh, god! oh, nurse? how shall this be prevented? what sayest thou? hast thou not a word of joy? some comfort, nurse. faith, here it is. romeo is banished... and all the world to nothing, that he dares ne'er come back to challenge you; or if he do, it needs must be by stealth. then since the case so stands as now it doth, i think it best you marry with the county. true. o he's a lovely gentleman. romeo's a dishclout to him. an eagle, madam, hath not so green, so quick, so fair an eye as paris hath. beshrew my heart, i think you happy in this second match. it excels your first. for if it did not, your first is dead, or 'twere as good he were as living here, and you no use of him. speakest thou from thy heart? and from my soul, too... or else beshrew them both. amen. what? well, thou hast comforted me marvelous much. go in, and tell my lady i am gone, having displeased my father, to laurence's cell, to make confession and to be absolved. marry, i shall, and this is wisely done. go! you say you do not know the lady's mind. uneven is the course, i like it not. immoderately she weeps for tybalt's death, and therefore have i little talked of love, for venus smiles not in a house of tears. happily met, my lady and my wife. that may be, sir, when i may be a wife. come you to make confession to this father? are you at leisure, holy father, now, or shall i come to you at evening mass? my leisure serves me, pensive daughter, now. my lord, we must entreat the time alone. god shield i should disturb devotion. juliet, on thursday early will i rouse thee. till then, adieu... and keep this holy kiss. oh, shut the door, and when thou hast done so, come weep with me, past hope, past care, past help. oh, juliet, i already know thy grief. tell me not, friar, that thou heard'st of this, unless thou tell me how i can prevent it. if in thy wisdom thou cans't give no help... hold, daughter. i do spy a kind of hope, as that is desperate which we would prevent. if rather than to marry county paris, thou hast the strength of will to-- o bid me leap, rather than marry paris, from off the battlements of any tower, or bid me go into a new-made grave and hide me with a dead man in his shroud. hold then. go home. be merry. give consent to marry paris. oh, no. wednesday is tomorrow. tomorrow night look that thou lie alone, let not the nurse lie with thee in thy chamber. take thou this phial, being then in bed... and this distilling liquor drink thou off... when presently through all thy veins shall run a cold and drowsy humor;, for no pulse shall keep his native progress, but surcease; no warmth, no breath shall testify thou livest... and in this borrowed likeness of shrunk death thou shalt continue two and forty hours... and then awake as from a pleasant sleep. in the meantime, against thou shalt awake shall romeo by my letters know our drift, and hither shall he come, and he and i will watch thy waking, and that very night shall romeo bear thee hence to mantua. give me, give me! tell me not of fear. hold, then. get thee gone. be strong and prosperous in this resolve. how now, my headstrong. where have you been gadding? where i have learnt me to repent the sin of disobedient opposition. pardon me, henceforward l, i am ever ruled by you. why, i am glad on't! this is well. stand up. this is as it should be. love give me strength. give this letter into the hand of romeo, in mantua. my lord! my lord! she's dead, juliet is dead! my lady juliet, my lord. she's dead, she's dead! my baby, where is she? o lamentable day. death lies on her like an untimely frost upon the sweetest flower of all the field. master. balthasar! how fares my juliet? for nothing can be ill, if she be well. how fares my lady? she's dead, my lord. she's dead. her body sleeps in capel's monument. i saw her laid low in her kindred's vault. then, i defy you, stars! live... and be prosperous. farewell, good fellow. juliet. o my love... my wife. death that hath sucked the honey of thy breath, hath had no power yet upon thy beauty. thou art not conquered... beauty's ensign yet is crimson in thy lips and in thy cheeks. death's pale flag is not advanced there. tybalt. liest thou there in thy bloody sheet? what more favor can i do to thee, than with that hand that cut thy youth in twain to sunder his that was thine enemy? forgive me, cousin. ah, dear juliet. why art thou yet so fair? shall i believe that unsubstantial death is amorous, and that the lean abhorred monster keeps thee here in dark to be his paramour? for fear of that, i still will stay with thee. never from this palace of dim night depart again. here, here will i remain, with worms that are thy chambermaids. eyes, look your last. arms, take your last embrace. and lips, o you the doors of breath, seal with a righteous kiss a dateless bargain to engrossing death. here's to my love. thus with a kiss... i die. who's there? a friend, and one that knows thee well. balthasar. how long hast thou been here? full half an hour. go with me to the vault. i dare not, sir. my master knows not that i am gone hence. stay then, i'll go alone. fear comes upon me. o much i fear some ill unlucky thing. romeo! oh, what an unkind hour is guilty of this lamentable chance? o comfortable friar, where is my lord? i do remember well where i should be, and there i am. where is my romeo? i hear some noise. oh, where is my romeo? oh, lady, come from this nest of death, contagion, and unnatural sleep. a greater power than we can contradict hath thwarted our intents. come along. the watch is coming. where is my romeo? come. go, good juliet. no. i dare no longer stay. no! i dare no longer stay. juliet! i dare no longer stay. i dare no longer stay! what's here? poison, i see, hath been his timeless end. o churl! drunk all, and left no friendly drop to help me after! i will kiss thy lips; haply some poison yet doth hang on them to make me die with a restorative. thy lips are warm! oh, no, no! lead, boy, which way? search about the churchyard. go, some of you... yea, noise? no! then i'll be brief, o happy dagger! this is thy sheath; there rest and let me die. where be these enemies? capulet! montague! see what a scourge is laid upon your hate... that heaven finds means to kill your joys with love; and l, for winking at your discords too, have lost a brace of kinsmen. all are punished. all are punished! a glooming peace this morning with it brings. the sun for sorrow will not show his head, for never was a story of more woe than this of juliet and her romeo.