h' h' ms. roberts, is it true that while we are here at this news conference, the indians are honoring the students who were killed, in a special burial ceremony out on the reservation? ms. roberts, has it ever happened before that so many thousands of rounds of ammunition were fired into the dormitories in such a short period of time? it happened many times before here. kent state, the orangeburg massacre-- 27 kids were shot at that one. or jackson state or houston, any one of a dozen others. students are slaughtered by trigger happy police, and nothing is ever done about it. besides billy jack, who else was shot? how many were actually killed? there were three deaths, and two still on the critical list. h' dr. bernard russert, dr. russert. has washington replied to your request for an investigation? are you kidding? remember after kent state how attorney general john mitchell said there was no need to explore the causes of the killings because he knew in advance the causes couldn't possibly be the national guard or the police. but didn't an fbi report subsequently prove that there were no shots fired by the students but there was grave culpability on the part of the guard? they sure did. but, as usual, washington did nothing about it. does this mean that it's the end of the school? will you have to close it down now? maybe. maybe not. i honestly don't know at this point. i'm sorry, folks, ms. roberts is very tired. you're going to have to leave. thank you, ms. roberts. my publisher still thinks that it's vital that a book be done about your school and how the massacre happened there. i wouldn't even know where to begin. maybe you could start with the arrest of billy jack. wasn't it what happened at the trial that made you so determined to make the school succeed? yes. that was-- what-- four, four and half years ago. wasn't billy jack's main belief that a man who doesn't go his own way is nothing? that's right. that's why they tried billy. but we all knew that what they were really trying was each man's right to find his own center, to follow his own conscience and to do his own thing without hurting or interfering with anybody else's. that ideal, to all of us, was billy jack. what your saying, then, is that it doesn't make any difference to you whether this jury finds you innocent or guilty, and it doesn't make any difference to you whether you live or die. you expect us to believe that you have absolutely no fear of the death penalty? i have a lot of fear, but i have a lot more respect. long ago i learned that he is my constant companion. he eats with me, he walks with me, he even sleeps with me. i'm sorry, i must have missed something back there. who is this faithful companion of yours? - death. - oh, i see. tell me, is this death companion business some special part of your indian beliefs? no. every one of us has death as his constant companion. he sits with every one of us every second of our lives, only we're too terrified to really think about that, but once you do, it will completely change your entire outlook on life. how so? you ask yourself, even in the most serious crisis, how important would this really be if i were suddenly told that i just had one more week to live? so, you learn to take nothing too seriously. on the other hand, you ask yourself, if this were my last act on earth, is this what i really want to do? so you learn on the one hand to be detached from the temporary things of this world, and on the other hand you learn to appreciate every little thing in it all the more. during the trial, sheriff cole resigned, and posner, who never really quite recovered from the death of his son, sold out all of his companies to his brother the banker, and he quietly left town. and though we were happy about it then, it turned out to be one of the worst things that ever happened to us. the prosecution, for it's part, savagely attacked our character and tried to make it look like i wasn't even raped. so miss garrison lies, and you swear to it. - objection. - sustained. now, ms. roberts, isn't it true that you were never raped? isn't it true that you made up this story in a desperate attempt to try and justify the violent and insane killing by the man you love? objection. order. i feel terribly sorry for your children, mr. williams. you feel sorry for my children? yes, and you, too. you know me, and you know i don't lie. it must be terribly degrading for you to pretend in front of all of these people, that i do, just to earn your money. yes, i was proud to go through west point. i was taught there a code of honor and manliness that, while it went overboard at times, i basically liked. yet you brought charges against your own officers, including two staff commanders and a general. that's right. i charged them with the deliberate and senseless slaughtering of innocent women and children in the field either directly or by men under their command, and by failing to report these atrocities or covering them up with full knowledge of same. and after you proffered these charges, the army suddenly made up charges against you, of cowardice in the field, and they offered to drop these charges against you if you would drop them against the officers. that's correct. and did you refuse to drop the charges? i did refuse could you please tell us in your own words exactly what led up to your refusing to obey this order in the field? was it before or after my lai? it was about seven months before my lai. we were out on a search-and-destroy mission on a small south vietnamese hamlet. just like at my lai, there had been plenty of advance warnings, so when we got there, there was no resistance, no military in sight. not a shot was fired. all the village was filled with was women, children, and old men. they were frightened and very eager to please, so we quickly herded them up into a ditch, and we sat around waiting for several hours for some word from headquarters as to what we were to do with them. people in the meantime were kept in the ditch in the boiling sun, and were not allowed to relieve themselves or go for any water. get them in the ditch! way down to the end. there must be some mistake. there's no mistake, sir. the order was perfectly clear. get me headquarters on the phone again. give me that phone. i want to hear it myself. if you fellows refuse, all hell can break loose. you know that. are you absolutely sure, sir? there can be no mistake down the line? yes, sir. i understand, sir. waste them. you mean the civilians? that's the order, clear as hell. direct from saigon. we're to waste them. all right, all you men on your feet. think clearly, now. you disobey this order, and they can hang you. lock and load! god almighty. what's happening to us? aim! fire! so it was this senseless slaughter and sadistic brutality coming as official orders from washington that turned you against america. no, not really. in war, when you've brainwashed men to become cold-blooded killers, you expect them to kill. then what was it that made you bitter toward america? - lieutenant calley. - lieutenant calley? you mean because he was tried for war crimes at my lai? no, he should have been tried. and so should all those colonels and generals and white-house aids who ordered the whole affair but were mysteriously let off scot-free. then why lieutenant calley? because america made him into such a great hero. to me they were sick and diseased men filled with evil, who cut innocent women's throats and blew out the brains of babies, and america had raised him up and made him an national idol. what was that part about the president switching his colors? on december 81969, every newspaper in this country carried president nixon's sacred promise that he would personally investigate my lai and he would personally see to it that everyone involved, if they were found guilty, was punished to the full limit of the law. and so you feel that since every officer involved to date has gone free, nixon failed his pledge. like any other mealy-mouth sell-out politician, when he found out that he could get more votes by supporting calley, he did a complete flip flop. and when i saw that the american people supported him in this, i knew then that the american conscience was dead and that the great spirit of this nation, which to me began back in boston and virginia dufing the american revolution, that it could never again be revived. ladies and gentlemen of the jury, have you reached a decision? we have, your honor. we the jury, unanimously find billy jack guilty of involuntary manslaughter. well, that's that. i think you'll find that the end of your little school out there, doc. well, it's not my school, but, i'll take a bet on it. billy jack wasn't the center of power of that school. who, then? jean? you know, to prove something for billy, she's going to make that place grow and grow. my guess is it's going to take off like a brush fire. that quiet little girl? that quiet little girl, my butt. that's like saying a rattle snake's got a quiet little bite. for all our sakes, i hope your wrong. respecting your good intentions, doc, when people have such wildly different attitudes, there's no way they are going to live together without generating violence. we've all had too much of that already. so, though the trial of billy jack as a person was over and he was sentenced from 5-15 years in the state penitentiary, the kids decided that billy jack was really kind of a symbol to live by and that the trial of billy jack as that kind of an ideal, had just begun. so they immediately set out to make the school bigger and better than ever before. that first year that billy was in prison, they found an old abandoned military academy, which they renovated entirely by themselves, begging, borrowing and scrounging everywhere they could for money or materials to make it go. listen, everybody. l just had a bakery that donated 100 loaves of bread. the entire school was built and owned by the kids, and they governed themselves on the simple philosophy that where there is power, there can never be love, and where there is love, there's no need for power. knowing that you can't really deal and understand other people until you first understand yourself, every program was based on learning how to cope and understand your own feelings first in order to understand and relate to other people. this philosophy they carried into everything, from meditation and body awareness exercises, all kinds of dance, even belly dancing. music, band, drill team, arts, crafts, advanced physics, mathematics, psychology, the classics, even into athletics, which they called yoga athletics. from yoga tennis to yoga football, and every sport in between. the idea always being that the thrill of participating and the self discipline one develops while training, preparing and learning, made one a winner for the rest of his life, no matter how well he played or how the temporary contest came out. and so winning and losing or worrying about someone grading your efforts was just not all that important anymore. growing and having the fun and privilege of doing-- that was everything. i heard something about taking the grant that was given as part of the deal for billy jack's surrender and then building a radio station or a recording studio or something like that. that's right. they went out and sold their own recordings door to door and the royalties really helped the school to continue to grow. with some of the royalties, they started an institute for child abuse and children's rights, and in working with these abused and orphaned children, they were stunned to find out what was secretly going on in children's orphanages and juvenile courts, state institutions for disturbed and retarded children, children's hospitals, and education in general. was that when they started their nader-type newspaper and magazine and then began those scorching exposes on government corruption and consumer rip-off. that's right. and it was in doing those exposés that our troubles really began. we've been digging. remember back in december of '73 when the-- the interior department, called in, was it 250 oil executives to work on the fuel allocation, right? so we started digging behind that, and we found out that the oil barons and the white house manipulated the whole energy crisis, including the israeli war, for just unbelievable profits. it makes the alaskan pipeline look like kids' stuff. but are you aware what could happen? i mean, that could blow the dome off the capitol. i mean we'd have the fbi, the cia, the plumbers, the plumbers' plumbers, the sequel to the plumbers... it'd be a tremendous blow. you know what they can do? if we don't tell our sources they can arrest us. just like that. she's absolutely right, i mean, it happened in '72. the la times spent $200,000 in legal fees defending their reporters who were subpoenaed to reveal their sources. i mean that's the la times. we don't stand a chance. they're either gonna blow us up altogether, or they're just gonna close the school down. i want to do an expose on the ibm ribbon conspiracy. the fantastic reader response made the kids determined to bring these exposes to a wider public so they decided to build their own tv station. they put on a fourth of july- type fundraising drive which they called "1984 is closer than you think." and it culminated in the largest drill team and band marathon ever held in this country. kids came from all over the us and canada at their own expense, and every day and night the donated coliseum was filled. just pull it down. hurry up. you're on next. h' was that before or after billy got out of prison? no, it was just before. i remember because ford had just shocked the nation by pardoning nixon and agreeing to let him destroy the tapes. we were all so angry at the way politicians at every level of government constantly used television to lie, con and manipulate people. oh, i know. i covered a candidate in california once who had campaign contributions from the oil companies. would you believe he dared to advertise himself as the one the oil companies feared the most? that's right. and because of things like that the kids decided to fight fire with fire before it was too late. i mean, look at how they packaged nixon as the law and order candidate who would bind the nation's wounds and bring us all together. well, we all bought it. that's right. so the kids decided to use television to fight television before it was too late. and they took their investigations being done in the magazines right into the streets where the public could see for themselves the secret deals and rip-offs right where they were happening. so in other words, mrs. childs, you missed one payment while you were in the hospital. no, i missed three payments. i was behind before i went into the hospital. okay. so you missed three payments and then they repossessed your furniture. and when you went to make up the payments, you had found that they destroyed your furniture and repossessed it and now they refuse to refund the money to you on which you paid on it two years before they repossessed it. - now ,is that correct? - honey, that's correct. twenty-three years in this town doing a helluva job, just following orders, and because of one crazy nigger, i'm dead. it's not the woman. it's that school and their tv station. i think the manager's going to come out. get on camera two. okay. all right. excuse me. um, we think as assistant manager that we should have the store's side of the story so that we can have all of the viewpoints presented fairly. may we have a comment? no comment. we were just trying to be fair, sir. we tried. hello? yes, sir. just a minute, please. telephone, mr. bromner. it's the home office. yes, sir. well, thank you, sir. it's a tough situation. right. well, i just went according to the manual, sir. right away. replace the old lady's furniture. with used furniture? with brand-new. it just hit the wire services. those crazy, lousy kids. what do they think, i wanted to take the old lady's furniture? it was shortly after that they started bugging our phones and the fbi started making mysterious and routine calls to the school pretending that it was was for clearances for the federal grant that the government had been giving us ever since billy jack surrendered. i guess it was at that point that i really should have realized and made the kids stop. did you have proof that your phones were bugged? yeah, one of the kids, a graduate of cal tech, i think, not only developed a device which could tell us when our phone was being tapped but he and another couple of electronic geniuses developed a lie detector that was even more accurate than the polygraph machine. i don't get it, how does it work? well, just by a person's voice alone, off the telephone or off or off the television. it's even more accurate than a normal lie detector. i don't believe it. well, watch the-- watch the thing and watch the needle. and so it is your contention then, governor, that the threat of exposure by the freedom school television station will in no way find any wrongdoing or kickback of this federal money ever touching the state capitol? as god is myjudge, mr. mudd, if there were a stack of bibles on this table before me, i swear to you that i have absolutely no knowledge of any kind of corruption by any member of my staff. - not one. - wow. good lord, that guy's lying through his teeth. grover, think of what this machine would do to the advertising industry, it'd just blow it apart. think of what we could have saved on the watergate hearings. - yeah. - yeah. i've got an idea. why don't we get the tapes to the watergate hearings and run them off on this thing and finally find out the truth? pardon me, mrs. merrick, we're from the fbi and, uh, we'd just like to ask you a few routine questions about your child. is something wrong? no, uh, does she go to the freedom school? yes, sir. do you know about the tv station that they operate? yes, sir. does she have anything to do with that? no. no, she doesn't. now, during all this time billy was in prison, did you visit him regularly? no. billy's humiliation at being caged up like an animal was so great that he wouldn't let any of us visit him. ever. for all four years? didn't you miss him? terribly. but he wrote to me every day and that helped keep me going. except, every time the mail came, i held my breath, hoping he hadn't given them an excuse to extend his sentence or even kill him. have the doctors told you if you'll be able to walk normally again? of course she'll be able to walk normally again. so you really didn't think they'd let billy out of prison alive? no, not even if they had to shoot him when he was going through the gates on parole. bet you remember that day when he got out. i sure do. it was the day we had our first international seminar on child abuse. child abuse? yeah, the kids had done an expose on child abuse, child battering, and how widespread it is here in this country. pretty soon, we became recognized as one of the few places that could successfully help parents who battered their children. this is our one-to-one type therapy. almost all of it is done by lay therapists. our kids here at the school. was the boy born without his hand? no, his father cut it off in a fit of rage. it's a horrible history of torture. all of our professional staff has pretty much given up on him. only carol refuses to take no for an answer. you don't really think she'll succeed? you obviously don't know carol. okay, tough monkey. time to shower up for the press. go ahead. you're just a couple of hours away from freedom. go ahead and give me one of those fancy kicks. now, indian buck, move out. so in summary then, you're saying to love those that we find really despicable, that we really can hate, and i can really hate these people that cut off the fingers and beat their children, and somehow in the experience of loving them, they are going to change before our eyes and stop beating their children. that's it, exactly. as you know, in a normal parent-child relationship, the parent is there to supply the child's needs. but, in the case of the child abuser, the parent is so desperate for love, he expects the child to fulfill his needs. well, when the child can't do it, or is incapable or for whatever reason, the parent ends up beating him. i'm sure some of you have experienced this, say, of some parents that have watched their children in little league? we find that one child usually becomes the scapegoat. it's usually the child most resembling the parent doing the abusing. you know, when you think about it, there are many, many kinds of child abuse. but it's only when it breaks out in physical violence that we recognize it as something horrible. dr. roberts, your complete claim then is that by loving these battering parents instead of punishing or confining them, that that actually works in stopping further beating of their children. absolutely. you're involved in child abuse, and i'll bet you're using some form of punishment, threat, or maybe even jailing, i don't know. now, you know your cure rate is less than 25 percent. ours, on the other hand, is over 90. dr. roberts? - i'm sorry. - i beg your pardon. go ahead. the whole fate of the human race depends upon our ability to handle and recognize normal aggression and the hostility in us. now, have you thought about applying this to other areas of our society? yes, as an example, this entire school here is built upon the same principle. and we would fervently like to try it in other areas. what jean has really taught us here and in the child abuse center, is that everyone has inside of them a fantastic force, and it can really change people once it's unleashed. so that's where the school gets its pacifism? i'm sorry, i just can't stomach that word pacifism. because when people hear that we're pacifists, they automatically feel we're sitting around waiting and sometimes even retreating from life, whereas we feel the thing that we've got here is a living, dynamic, positive force that has the ability to change the most warped lives, turn on the most confused and lost people and i think we all literally feel here that it could possibly rebuild the world. is this what you call nonviolence? no, i'm sorry. we call it by something much cornier than that. we call it love. - can any of us go along? - no. billy, there's a big press contingent waiting for you up in my office. and i think it would be a good idea for you and me to get together and talk about what we're going to say. that it? billy, it would be to everyone's advantage if you would cooperate with warden cells. he's a hard head. he'll be back. no way. they've already got him marked. you mean they'll kill him? h' he's coming. he's coming. he's coming. you're not little carol? and sunshine? carol, could you come in here a minute? billy. billy, carol wrote a tune, uh, especially for you when you went away, and i think we should hear it about right now. why don't we all kind of be quiet and listen. thank you. nope, i missed. mike? hai. - karate? - hapkido. i know that, but what are you doing in it? what do you mean by that? it's just funny, i'm sorry. you're such a timid, squeaky clean little mouse. i thought you were supposed to be nonviolent, for god's sakes. even the buddhist monks had to learn something to keep from being attacked. think about all those men out there who'd like to get her hands on their sexy little body. think about all the men out there who'd like to get their hands on her sexy little body. here, let me help you. all i care about right now is my own body. my god, you broke my back. billy, i'd like you to meet mr. han from korea. a hapkido master here in the united states. how do you do. i have had the honor of hearing about your kicks in korea. thank you. is it true, do you really-- can you jump the spin kick? after you. be my guest. just hold it, like that. i haven't seen one of those in a long time. would you like to try it? after you. be my guest. you and i and my master are the only ones i know who can do that. thank you very much. running deer and his two sons have been lost for almost a week in that snow storm up in the taos mountains. blue elk wants to know if any of our skiers or any of the kids from the survival program can go up and search. how about the rescue patrol, blue elk? have they been notified? the highway patrol and the ranger stations, they don't give a damn when indians are involved. at the rangers station all they could tell us is that he's probably out drunk someplace and they refused to help us. okay. i'll get the sheriff. carol, you go get some of the kids in their winter gear. and tell them to dress warm 'cause it's a terrible blizzard up there. the family has been starving for weeks. the father and the two sons went out after deer, and they're probably lost in that storm up on independence ridge. see if you can get a chopper into latigo canyon. if not, try to get someone to ski down the other side of independence. over. there's no way i can get it open. 0k3)!- uh, ground control, ground control, over. this is ground control. over. we're moving down the south range and will try to get in with some ground equipment. over. ground rescue is underway. team three, is there any way you can get around the storm? try to come in east of the taos divide? this is air rescue four. we're over the taos divide right now. it's just as socked in up here. looks like it's moving south. what about ski patrol? over. they're all over the place but the blizzard's so bad on the ground they can't even see. stand by. uh, this is chopper seven, the only way you would get down there is to lift them up these ridges and let them ski in. over. they're being lifted now. over. ground, this is chopper seven. we found two of them, two boys. one's dead. the other one's almost. alert central we're on the way. this is instrument four, instrument four calling. can anybody read me? please somebody come over. somebody please, damn it, come on in. rescue three, i've been getting a weak signal that keeps fading in and cutting out and it could be coming from the other side of these peaks. let's go have a look. ls he alive? just barely, and i can't get anybody on this thing. no. you never will with these peaks. can you get below this storm down over on independence ridge? i can try. go. all right. let's take this one down to the morgue, huh? sheriff. i'm really sorry. why are you bringing him in here? that's what they told me to do with him. well, he goes down to city hospital. bundle him up good and go with him in the ambulance. ambulance? where are you taking him? - down to the indian hospital. - well, that will waste time. why not treat him here? i wouldn't do it if i thought it were dangerous. you mean you can't even keep an indian here one or two days in an emergency? look, i'm just an intern. i don't make the rules. well, you're not gonna move him. he could lose a hand or a foot. - well-- - tell me. what would you do if he were a white man and you could treat him? well, i'd pack his extremities and start him on some vasodilator of ivs. show me. you could be arrested for making me do this. you know that. n ow. what the hell is going on here? vasodilator ivs for each one. come on, doctor. i'll take the responsibility. and bring those packs over here and start applying them to their lower legs and i'll take the hands. and raise them up. come on, doctor, move. my client running deer wishes to have it entered into the record that it is his position that the indian is a member of the sovereign nation and is not subject to the laws of this land and this state. and that therefore, this court has no jurisdiction. so entered. your honor, in so far as the defendant is still hospitalized, and in addition has suffered the severe personal hardship of the loss of his oldest son, the state petitions the court for leniency and pleads for a lesser sentence. hey, don't rip your pants, buster. in view of the voluntary pleading and the personal hardships encountered, the court reduces the mandatory sentence for trespassing and illegal hunting of deer from one year minus a day in jail to ten days in the county jail. quiet. quiet. and a period of probation to be not less than one year. bailiff. bailiff. oh, lord. now what are they being hassled for? all right, ken. tell headquarters that we don't need any more help. i demand to know what's going on here. look, lady, mind your own business. get back in your car. this is my business. these are my students, now tell me what's going on. lady, they were disturbing the peace, we got a report of possession. we're just checking it out. now, i suggest you stand back or i will arrest you for interference. you just try it. hey, they can't search you unless they've got a warrant. all right, punk. move it out. i've got every right to stand here, i'm a citizen. well, so am i, punk, now move it out. they have no right to search you without a warrant. tell them so, out loud, and they'll be in contempt of court. what the hell do you think you're doing? it's your choice, lady. you can do as you're told or get your head split open. listen, buster, you're not gonna feel me up. i'll search you right here, or in the paddy wagon. it's your choice. jim, you're out of line, now knock it off. well, my dear. you can feel me up right here, in the bus or the lawn. anywhere you want to do it. well, can't win them all. all right, folks. move it. we aren't gonna ask you again, now move it. okay alley lawyer. you can go now. unless you've got something else to say. hey, we've got a tough monkey here. feels he don't have to move off like the others. okay, mister. you were ordered to disperse. and that means now. somebody else need a lesson? yeah, our tough monkey here. say, isn't that-- we're gonna have to shoot him. too big a mess. billy, you heard what the sheriff said. you just can't keep doing this. well, what would you rather i did, then? let them club him to death? under alienation and guardianship the government has the right to sell, trade or give away all the indian land to whomever it pleases. yeah. which are usually their friends who put up campaign funds. and under guardianship they control our water, they control our plumbing, they control our worship, they control our land and they control our money. they control every damn thing in our lives. mr. strump. as our agent, we want to know what you going to do. what the congress declared was a bill giving you self-determination. hah! congress is a bunch of filthy rotten, lying thieves. and to get some industry in here by either leasing or selling this land which isn't worth a damn to anybody anyway. if it isn't worth a damn, why the hell are all these oil companies and mining interests so eager to get their hands on it? we'd like to know, agent strump. tell us. yellow hawk, give us those statistics which show how many jobs will be provided for here on the reservation by these people. that's not yellow hawk. that's little uncle tommy hawk. he's what crazy horse called a loaf around the fort. he's a bought and paid apple and you know it. it happens every time you radical activists come in here. you tear up everything and then you skip out. and it's the children and those of us that are left behind that have to stay and take the beating. my father was a tribal chairman. and my grandfather was a man of medicine for many years. and i'm an activist. he doesn't mean you, blue elk. - he means me. - and me. and in a sense he's right. they do have to put up with pressure every day. - they control our-- - how's it going? not very good, i'm afraid. and you know who the trustee is. it's posner's first national bank. in this state. and he's got $80 million of indian money in his trust. i thought we were here to discuss running deer. to get the tribal permission to use him as a test case for international law before the world court. we've got names, we've got dates and exact amounts, and we're going to bring it out in international court. a person could get killed with foolish talk like that. many of us already have been. because if they can't buy us out with scholarships and grants, they kill us. yeah. well, what happened? they voted it down. and that damned yellow hawk will probably get a personal invitation to the white house for that. i don't understand. how in the world do they keep him in line so? they caught him embezzling funds and the white house promised to hush it up if he'd cooperate. you know, the same old story. why don't you guys take running deer's case to world court just by yourselves? i mean, you don't have to bother with all these committee and tribal decision things. well, that just divides us by having indian fighting indian. you know, divide and conquer. that's the way that they've always beaten us. now, that's your whole problem right there. - hmm? - what? you got all chiefs and no indians. that is so bad. i can't even believe it. that is really poor. that is really bad. if it's illegal for an indian to go out and hunt deer, how come it's all of a sudden legal for you and your bunch? because it's deer hunting season, and we've all got our licenses. that's why. not on indian land it isn't. not for you anyway. it's still illegal. carl, this is no longer indian reservation land. it's all been terminated. the indians won't accept that. besides, this land's sacred to them. there'll be trouble. we do this every year, carl. you know that. yeah, but you don't lock up a starving indian every year. tempers are still pretty hot over that one. carl, on this bus we've got corporation presidents, pentagon officials, washington politicians, and even the lieutenant governor. you big ignorant pig. - who you calling a pig? - i'm calling you a pig. with all of those big wheels back there, do you expect me to go say, "sorry, we gotta all go home"? order. order, order! order! crazy drunks. shooting at anything that moves. our women and children are afraid to move out of their homes for water. yeah! who is it they're shooting? what are you talking about? running deer couldn't even kill a deer and feed his starving family. right! indians have to go hungry. but these trophy hunters, they come in here and they do as they damn please. and kill all the deer they want. yeah! all right. the question is, what are we going to do about it. let's run them out. i think we should take some cameras and go down and take some pictures of them and their call girls in the nude and turn them in to the newspaper. hey. better than that, better than that. let's send them to their wives. --got a right to hunt on indian land. that's what the law students were trying to tell you before. that's no longer indian land. that's part of the reservation that they've been quietly terminating for our own good. not to me it isn't. what is that supposed to mean? i never voted for termination. did anybody in this room ever vote for termination? no! do you know of any tribal member who knowingly voted for termination? no! then to me they're still illegally on indian land and this tribal council has the authority to arrest them and drive them out. what do you mean, arrest them? who's gonna do it? i will. the tribal police. or anyone in this room who is man enough to go with me. or tell me something. are you afraid to stand up to the white man even when he's shooting at your wives and your children? no! me and my rifle can be any place you say within half an hour. now, they're calling this the international symposium on the law. and the american indian legal rights-- and let me tell you guys something. the real purpose of this is to make it look like everybody's stealing from the indians. oh, come on, posner. i've handled dozens of land sales of indians and even i don't know what termination is. do you? look, these radical indians are taking payoffs on all sides. who cares? as long as they don't terminate my lease. i've only got 92 more years for it to run. well, you sure as hell better hope that conference never takes place. because if it does, we're all in for a lot of surprises. i order you to drop your guns. you sentence our brother running deer to jail for killing a deer to feed his starving children, and yet you dare to come here and do this? what, do you call this sport? i was wrong. i'll correct that injustice to the indian. well, tell me. just how are you going to do that? he's already spent ten days rotting in your lousy jail like a caged animal. i'll give running deer a job. a good job. more money than he could possibly earn. because he's an indian? and you've got one pay scale for your whites and one for your indians? aw, come on, now. don't be childish. all of you. you are all illegally trespassing on indian land and you are all going to be tried by us. here and now. if this is a tribal decision, where is yellow hawk and little bear? probably back home sucking up your spit. billy. i'm lieutenant governor barnes. this is george shipley. he's the president of stonehearst mining company. this isn't indian land. after it was terminated we purchased a leasehold on it. my company holds the rights to it and these men are here as my guests. how many days after the president signed that termination bill did your company get your leasehold? oh, i can't, i can't remember. i don't see that has any bearing. how many days? the day after termination was signed. and how much money did you just happen to contribute to the secret campaign fund? what did you say your name was? my name is george shipley. i'm president of the stonehearst mining company. you know, shipley, i think i'll just kill you right where you stand. we've made a terrible mistake and you've got the upper hand for now. take advantage of it and all you'll do is fan the flames of hatred higher. and then later on, all of us here, somehow, we'll get even. trying us isn't going to solve anything. blue elk? rolling thunder? i know we don't think much of each other, but we're realists. now, what the lieutenant governor has to say is true. you may feel good now, but you're gonna suffer later. all right. we'll not try you now. we'll just take a good clean picture of each and every one of you for future reference. okay. you heard him. i want two lines here. women to the front and men to the rear. and i want all the men to take off them hats. now. oh, you've really gone too far this time, billy. you're making a terrible mistake photographing those men. you know, the last time one of you posners uttered that lousy cliche, one of you got killed. now tell me, don't you ever learn? you people back there. that means you too. let's go. and i'll swear to god you're really gonna pay for this one. take that hat off. i'm talking to you. jean, how much more is gonna have to happen before you get those kids to pull back on those exposes? taking pictures of those people just infuriated them. it made matters much worse. i know that, carl. but i can't tell the kids on one hand i have complete confidence that they can govern themselves and then on the other hand take it away when there's an important decision to be made. either you decide to trust them on the vital decisions, or you don't. it's as simple as that. yes, but you can speak out, can't you? i mean get up and present your point of view. i don't see why you can't argue against something you think is bad or destructive. as long as the kids have the right to vote it down if they don't agree with you. yeah, i know. but oftentimes kids have a tendency to hero worship and i just think if billy or i got up and argued a point some of these kids would just blindly follow because they identify with us so much. and i'm sorry, i just don't think that's fair. what you're saying then is that when you get right down to it, you don't really believe they're adult enough to make their own decisions. grandfather, i would be honored if you would teach me how to pierce the veil and go to that other world and make my own inward journey to find my own center. i would be honored, grandfather, if you would teach me the way. you have many enemies in this world waiting to destroy you. if you are to survive, you will have to find peace in yourself first. that is why i want to make the inward journey. the inward journey is dangerous. filled with terrifying evil. there are many demons of great power. it takes much wisdom to learn that they are of your own making. and first, you must learn to see your own shadow. how will i learn to see my shadow, grandfather? many cannot survive the dangerous inward journey. but if you do, in time you will come face to face with your own shadow. then you will know what i mean. i think i see it, grandfather. yes, i see it clearly now. what color is it? blue. bright blue. that is a spirit looking to see if you are worthy. it takes many forms. where did it go? when you can tell me where the flame comes from, i will tell you where it goes when it goes out. grandfather, where will i look for my shadow demon? we think the spirits live out there but they and the shadow demon live inside you. he is all the evil in you that others can see in you but you cannot. why is that? we all put forth an image that we want other people to think we are and that we'd like to think we are, but we all have the secret evil side that is painful to discover, though others can see it in us very easily. how can i come to know my evil side, grandfather? by the things in others that make you angry. whenever you get upset at someone or something, it's because that quality that you're upset about really exists in you. it is always easier to see the evil in someone else and by trying to change him, think you are getting rid of your own evil, your own shadow. it takes superhuman courage to see that this fault really exists in you. that what you're really hating and trying to change is a quality of yourself. like the rugged man who hates long-haired youth. underneath, he is secretly afraid of his own femininity. grandfather, may i now descend to the cave of the dead? no, you are not yet ready. first, you must seek your own vision. when your heart is open, your vision will come. and only after you've received your vision will you have some chance to survive in the cave of the dead. hello, blue elk. how long has billy gone without food and water? seven days now. and on the eighth, if he's worthy of it, his vision will come. but if a woman enters these sacred grounds the medicine is lost. you'll have to go back, i'm sorry. what are you guys gonna do when the women's lib hears about this? you'll have to take that up with the spirits. come, billy jack. come. for i am going to show you the true nature of the white man through all of history. come and look with me over this river of time. look out. there's st. augustine, preaching the christian creed of love to the druid britons, with the tips of their lances dripping with blood. oh, and there's king richard the lionhearted, slaughtering the heathen until they convert to christianity. here you see the lie of that old romanticism you were taught about the crusades as a boy. see how they butcher everyone in this village of jews in the name of god and love? and remember that great brave indian fighter, kit carson? well, he had rounded up over 400 navajo women, children and babies into this cave, and his men bravely and methodically shot them to death. what the white man calls the spread of civilization, his christianity, and so-called democracy have a secret shadow. greed and power. look well into your own heart, my brother. see how much of your violence comes from the same lust for power over other people. we've got names, we've got dates and exact amounts and we're going to bring it out in international court. a person could get killed with foolish talk like that. a person could get killed with foolish talk like that. no! that worked pretty well. which one do you think goes next? come on, try it. let's try this one and see what happens. no good sons of bitches. oh my god. i don't know where she gets the patience. you've gotta remember, carol, danny has been in over 20 foster homes, and he was even put in solitary confinement in one of the detention homes when he was 4 years old. he's never known anything but brutality and rejection. i understand all that. but what can i do about it? every single expert told me he's hopeless. honey, we can keep loving him and loving him no matter what he does. but you've got to remember he's going to have a hard time accepting that love because he's gonna be afraid that it will be torn away like everything else in his life. because he's convinced he's so evil. so we just can never never get mad at him and more important we just cannot give up loving him. oh, i'm not going to give up. but what i want to know is, while we're doing all this loving, who's supposed to be loving us? i'll love you, honey. this school has no legal right to detain the child. now, if we have to find danny's parents and get them to regain custody we will, and if that doesn't work, we'll have him committed to a mental hospital. you'll do what? any attempt by your group, or posner's group, or any other makes to attack this school through this child will be met by the finest lawyers and the most widespread publicity that money can buy. you're just trying to get back at us because we've exposed the filthy conditions of your state hospitals. why don't you go and clean them up so they're fit for human beings? - you do that. - we have evidence the child is unhappy here, and is constantly going into fits of rage. mister, you are so stupid it's unreal. harry. harry, this is not constructive. now, it's clear that jean is not going to give up the child without a legal battle, so if you want to see it through you're just going to have to take her to court. fair enough. it shouldn't be too difficult to prove that this environment is too radical an environment to bring up a young child in. what you men are really saying is this constant harassment and this bugging of our telephones, it will all magically stop if we decide to give up the indian rights seminar. oh, wait a minute, i'm sorry. i haven't any idea what you're talking about. but i'm sure your phones aren't tapped. that's illegal without a court order. would you go get bugger and tell him to bring the machine in here, please? so you can just go back and tell whoever sent you that they can just stop bugging our phones because we can knock out their bug anytime we want to. is this phone now being tapped? oh, yes. with an infinity type that is picking up everything being said in this room from this phone without you even lifting up the phone receiver. so, whenever we want to talk without anyone else listening in, we just call on bugger. bugger, hit the switch. you didn't turn this thing off, did you? - turn off what? - i don't know, it's weird. it's gone blank, i can't hear anything. well, check your relays. mr. posner, allegations have been made that the $80 million trust that was given to you by the indian bureau for the land sale was turned over to you as trustee, instead of the bank in wyoming, and this is because of your heavy campaign contributions in washington. look, that's ridiculous. i'm not even aware of what campaign contributions my executive committee decides to make. but i do know that they are made on a strictly impartial basis. you mean you have no friends at all in washington? i mean, there isn't anybody up there-- well, certainly i-- or any heavy campaign contributions? certainly i have friends in washington. don't you? now, what can i do for you, princess? aren't you responsible for helping eisenhower back in the '50s effect the transfer of indian trust money to local banks here and throughout the state so that you could, uh, invest it at a great personal profit? ah, well, that was quite a long time ago but no, no, that's not true. absolutely not. what does it say? what does it say? basically, it says the man is lying through his teeth. what's that ticking? i'm picking up a strange ticking sound from the transmitter. what's it sound like? the governor's putting the town under martial law. the town? why the hell isn't he out here protecting the school? something about fearing the kids coming in and retaliating. oh, bull. that jackass would do anything for publicity. well, as long as the laws work one way for the rich and one way for the rest of us, looks like there's only one thing left for us to do. go in at nighttime and bomb the hell out of them. the police won't help us, we know that. and we also know that our nonviolence just gets us stomped on. the only thing those racist pigs will ever understand is terror. wait a minute, jocelyn. why don't you quit using race as an excuse for your own neurosis. i don't think all these marches and protests and demonstrations accomplish anything. oh yeah, well, look at wounded knee. well, look at wounded knee. what was accomplished? plenty. frightened middle-class people who see things changing so fast around them, just when they are becoming humane and beginning to see that there is an injustice, they see violent demonstrations and flee like hell right back to where the politicians want them. she's exactly right. she's exactly right. why don't we come up with something different? something that we really want to show the people in town we're not monsters and we don't go around clubbing people and throwing bombs. michelle, come on. king tried that approach and tell me where is he today? oh, come on. come on. that's beside the point and you know it. the hell it is. i'm right on the point. where's everything he's done, or anybody else for that matter? they blew it off like they blew off his head. to go in and bomb now is not acting, it's reacting to what they've done to us. and the guy who's making you react is in fact controlling you. i agree with michelle. instead of reacting to them, why don't we just once go in and do what's good for us? i'd like to add something to that if i might. would you like to come up here and speak, jean? come on. i thought we were supposed to make our own decisions. come on. all this ruckus isn't getting you anywhere. but doesn't she have a say so just like you do and she and she and she? yeah, say so, say so, but she knows she's gonna get up, and make a speech that everybody in this room is going to follow blindly. that's right. i don't gotta tell you. now, look, either we decide or big mama over there decides for us. joanne. joanne. big mama doesn't want to tell you what to do, she just has some thoughts she'd like to give. it's a crisis right now and you're trying to tell us what to do? that violates everything that you've taught us to believe. here we go again. here we go again. well, it's about time. my god, at least someone's got common sense. what do you mean? stopping these riots before they start. thank god at least we've got a governor with guts. aw, come on, blue elk. we came all the way up here just to see billy. well, i can't help that. you can't see him now. this is a gathering of medicine men. some of them are using smoke from religious herbs and others are purifying themselves for billy's sacred journey. this whole mountain is closed. you mean they purify themselves just to take drugs? no, no, only some do. and for them the smoke of the medicine is a divine spirit. if one is not totally prepared to meet him, if one has not fasted, or purified oneself thoroughly, or if outsiders interfere, the spirit would be angry and make billy sick, or even take him away. like when a kid is spaced? - off in stony land? - no, no. you people don't know anything about the other world or about the power that can so easily kill you. so when like fools you take drugs for kicks or to get high, you run a great danger. and when something happens, all you can talk about is mental illness, or you describe it as suicide. come on, blue elk. we know all that. but when can we see him? tomorrow morning. maybe. but you're going to have to wait half way down the mountain. - now leave. - all right, you guys. come on. you are going to descend to the cave of the dead, where our people were massacred. be very careful, because there are many spirits there who would like to take you with them. and others who do not want to pass on to the next world, so they would like to enter and possess your body. the souls of these dead wreak for vengeance and they will know your heart. if it is that of a white man, you will not survive. i am ready, grandfather. there will be demons also. if you show any fear, they will tear you to pieces and the ghosts will possess your soul. if you show you are not afraid no matter what they do, the demons will stop terrifying you and become your friends. are you afraid? you once taught me that courage is not the absence of fear, grandfather, but the conquest of it. i am ready. beware most of all the red-eyed demon. by his screams you will know him. he is the most powerful of all the demons and because you will do much good if you survive, he will kill you on the spot if you show any fear. good luck. no cobras live in this country, my friend. i know who you are and i'm afraid i'm going to have to ask you to leave. i've got to go down the tunnel. you're me. i am loweklow. your inner self. someday, when you fully accept your fate and your death, then you will have me as your inner guide, but for now, you are to go to the desert and learn from the maiden. i'm sorry, i just can't understand all that's happening here. but that's your trouble. you always try to think and understand everything with your head instead of just feeling it with your heart. now go and just experience what the maiden offers you. billy jack, over here. now who are you? and where are we? i am here to show you the way to the house of the great one. but first you must prove yourself generous of heart. all right. i'm ready. go and slap him in the face and no matter what he does, do not strike back. and no matter what he does, i'm not to hit him back? that's right. run, get going, run there. go, go. i've got a little bet. no way. i don't think you're going to particularly like this. why, you stupid son of a-- that man was on the lowest level and reacts only with animal instinct. treated with violence, he was immediately pulled down to the violent animal level. no better than the man that hit him. and so he ends up being controlled by the animal in the man who hit him. hit another. war of honor is something that went out in the middle ages. war today is nothing but economic gain, economic gain for a few individuals in this country who control the top, top companies in this country. these companies go all the way to soft drink manufacturers, all the way to prepackaged foods. excuse me a moment. this is gonna seem as stupid to you probably as it does to me, but-- he was on the second level. he could not be pulled down to the level of the brute beast acting on physical violence, but was easily pulled away from what he was doing and lost control of his own center. so he too did not own his own soul, but could quickly be controlled by another. once again. forgive me, i have no idea why i am doing this. i feel sorry for you. only a child thinks that being a man is being tough and violent. someday you may learn that being a man has to do with self-discipline over one's time and one's emotion with a deep and... compassionate understanding for other people's feelings. this man has reached the third level where he is his own person, so that no man can force him to react, thereby control his actions or take anything away from him. but what about the fourth level? who told you of the fourth level? i don't know, nobody told me about the fourth level, it just kind of popped into my head, that's all. look, can i go to my spiritual guide now? you may never go to him. he comes when he wills. and of yet, you are not ready. so why not? i thought i just conquered my demon. you just met him, and learned that your own worst demon is yourself. your task now is to come to thoroughly know your shadow and accept it, and by accepting your weaknesses and human frailties. when your shadow has become your friend, then your spiritual guide will come for you, and only then will you be ready. grandfather. how is all of this happening to me? i tried to get them to go wait down the mountain, billy, but they insisted on seeing you. that's all right. we can talk on the way down. look, we're worried because the kids at the school are just going to forget the whole thing and go off on one of their nonviolent love kicks again. and all that will happen is we'll get bombed again and more of our kids will get killed. yeah, look, billy. there's a whole group of us. billy, we'd like you to lead us in. you know, hit them with a counterattack. we could go in at night and bomb their tv station for a change or kidnap somebody from the town. fight back. look, being strong is one thing, but bombing is another. why, because it's not open? no, because it's the act of a sick coward. so what the hell are we supposed to do? just roll over and play dead? yeah, billy, how much can we take? look, if i were a kid in the barrio or the ghetto today, and i had to grow up seeing my parents every day out of work or else lucky to get a two-hour bus ride into the city so they can make a few dollars cleaning up the white man's filth and then return only to be insulted by the landlords, the teachers and the police-- the police? they're so damn corrupt. i know they are, and i sure as hell would be tempted to go off and do things that would make the fanatic radicals look like kindergarten kids. well then, come on, let's do it. nothing else we can do. does that mean you're going to lead us in to bomb them back? - yeah, come on, billy. - no, not in a million years. why not, billy? because that kind of violence never helps anybody or liberates anybody. it just gives some psychotic who's filled with a lot of self-hatred an excuse to kill a lot of innocent bystanders and maybe grab a lot of headlines by spouting some sophomoric slogans about class struggle. and the end result of the whole thing is it gives the law and order mentalities like posner a chance to grab even more power. as far as what's going on back at the school i think you kids are just gonna have to go back and decide all that for yourselves. h' what the hell is that? i don't know, sir. sounds like drums. lieutenant, you better put the men out on alert. sergeant, go out and see what the noise is. hey, colonel. maybe your revolution is gonna come limping in here with a musket, fife and drum. h' lieutenant, i don't think you're gonna believe this. come one, come all to the world's first total man meet in history. howard cosell, where are you? each team has a poetry team, a belly dance team, a rock band, a sprinter, a pole vaulter and a relay team. no prizes, no awards, and no politics. just the fun of competing. anyone can form a team and join in. man is both body and soul, and physical and spiritual, so come to the first total man meet in history. hey, colonel. these radical demonstrations can be awfully dangerous. think you and your men can handle this one? lieutenant, escort them. attention all units, attention all units. be on the alert. this could be a clever diversionary tactic. all right, carl, knock it off. it's no use, the wheel is just getting deeper and deeper. have you got the tow truck yet? hey, jerry? i've already called the tow truck and they can't come out until morning. send another bus. oh, wait a minute. i think maybe there's help coming. yeah, someone's on their way. russell, that's not help. jerry? jerry? something funny's going on. call the sheriff. well well well. if it ain't our candle waving culture group. looks like you've got a little problem here, huh? well, i tell you, while you're waiting for help, we'll, uh, we'll provide you with a little culture, okay? give me one of them violins. that is a guitar, stupid. they still can't find the sheriff and billy's on his way. tell him to keep trying. try the state police. well, lookie here. really big man, jason, aren't you? fellows, we can't fight and we're not interested in-- just tell us what you want. look, now, you've had your fun and you've really damaged our bus. now, you don't need to burn it too. please, don't burn our bus. oh, my my my, huh? you boys out for a little fun and games? you just decide, it's saturday night, roll a bus over or two, huh? well, it's something to do. yeah, it beats going to church, doesn't it? well, yeah. yeah. oh, man. he's a big one, jas. - 6i9ll. - 6i9ll. really? how much do you weigh, about 265 pounds? - no, 285. two hundred and eighty five pounds? - right. - jason, i didn't think you guys piled it that high down here in your part of the county, huh? well, you know the funny thing about being so big though is that a little girl, like this luscious little belly dancer here, she could take you right off at the knees just like that. what's she going to use, a buzz saw? no. she wouldn't use a buzz saw. just her knee. her knee? she couldn't even get her knee up high enough. she doesn't have to kick you in the family jewels. what she would do is... right down there inside the thigh. oh, i'm sure. and you know, not only that, but if she did it right, you would not only go down like a bomb, but she might even tear that muscle all the way down under the kneecap. you might even have to have surgery. indian, you're full of karate crap, you know that? well, i knew he was going to say that. i just knew you were going to say that. and i suppose that means that i will have to say to you that i will have to show you, right? be my guest. and i suppose that's all right with you, isn't it, jason? good luck. that's one thing about you, you've always had such a generous heart, jason. you don't mind at all that i-- - go right ahead. - ...take him on, or-- - sure. - wonderful fellow, wonderful fellow. well, you can't say that i didn't warn you. right? - right. - and you can't say that i didn't warn you? - no, no. - ls he a valuable man? - ahh. - so-so. so-so? that's all you are? well, in any event, you can't say that i didn't warn you, right? now i suppose we're down to that time when there's really nothing left to do but show you, is there? be my guest. joanne, what do you think you're doing? getting even. what do you mean getting even? this just pulls you down to their level. well, what the hell do you call what you just did? come on, billy. come on, you can debate your visions later. law association wants to know if you want to open the legal seminar, - or speak last. - last. after everyone else has gone home. what's the matter? look who they said would never leave his room. danny thinks he might like to have that thing now, wouldn't you, danny? what thing? the thing that will help his arm grab onto things. how in the world did you ever do it? okay, almost. but you've got to put this here, right like that. - i'll never learn. - yeah, you will. and you'll sing up on the platform - like the rest of the kids. - i'd be so embarrassed. will i really get to play up there? yeah, but you've gotta work hard, okay? ready? - really? - yeah, okay. do you mean he's actually talking now? yeah. with carol he's become a regular chatterbox. that's beautiful. change over to here, like that. well, jean, i hope this is going to end your indian legal rights seminar. i know, i know. not a mark on him and death by accidental drowning. well, what the hell did you expect? yeah, a sign? courtesy of w. a. posner and his friends from the cia? the mass confusion over really what are the indian rights makes it impossible for even indian lawyers to grasp the laws that are mostly aimed at depriving him of 13 million acres of prime real estate in the united states. let us now look closely at how these committees control the entire congress and the entire spending, so that 220 million people are totally controlled by the votes of 4 or 5 men. the traders are given a complete monopoly on the reservation by the bureau. prices are inflated, sometimes as much as a thousand percent. and when the little money that these people have is gone, the traders extend credit to them at interest rates usually falling between 48-75 percent annually. and the bia parading their sell-out indians around before the public as a camouflage, refuse to throw the traders off the reservation or to even regulate or in any way control them. can you tell me why? the only possible reason must be kickbacks, tied in with the first national bank and mr. posner's trust funds. these again regulated by the bia. and the people that are going to be the ones that are suffering are my people. people that are on the grass roots level. not the tribal councilmen. not the fat tribal councilmen with their... government or tribal cars. not them. and for years since i was a little girl i've seen this go on amongst our own people. graft and corruption. i call you brother, but i have my hand in your pocket. she calls me sister. she has a knife in my back. we talk about unity. unity in the world, in the government? better start at home. charity begins at home. and so in closing, please let us try and remember the overwhelming despair gnawing at every indian and every other person in the united states knowing that there is no longer any way he can directly affect the destiny of his country, and therefore, he can no longer control his own life. you know, it's hard to believe that this country, which was started in a small corner of virginia, where even though the population was very small, god created such incredible people as james monroe, james madison, george washington, patrick henry, george wythe, peyton randolph, george mason, the unbelievable thomas jefferson and many, many others. the question now is whether that incredible spirit of those men which created this country is to be completely obliterated by the greed and corruption which exists at every conceivable political level from the white house to the teeniest trading post on the indian reservation. do you know that one word, just one word could change the entire course of the american indian legal destiny and thereby change the destiny for all of us here? and that is the word "honest." that one word could change this government and special interest groups back to the spirit of thomas jefferson and patrick henry. which is of government of the people. jefferson summed it all up in one phrase. "the entire art of government is being honest." to those of you who make peaceful evolution impossible, it is you and only you that will make violent revolution inevitable. thank you. a conservator is like a guardian, young lady. if you hit me, you'll be in contempt of court. i'll do it, i swear to you i'll do it, now get out. i'm taking the child. no, you're not. what the hell do you think you're doing? i haven't discharged this patient yet. we petitioned the court to name me as conservator. normally, i am a peaceful man, carl. but if he's not out of this room by the time i turn around i'm throwing this vile, decaying dung heap right through that window. now you get him the hell out of here. until the court does appoint you conservator, this is illegal, harry, and you know it. now come on. let's go down the hall and talk this over. now, don't you worry, honey. we're gonna get him back to the school. all right? phew. they're coming to arrest grandfather. they're coming to arrest grandfather. all right, cole, what's this warrant for? you're not going to take him in, cole. cole, i don't believe this. this is absurd. absolutely absurd. grandfather would never accept lease money. yellow hawk is behind this. obviously that's a frame up, but just as obviously you can beat it. unless someone else does something stupid. he's right. come on, grandfather. i'll go in with you. hey, blue elk. it's me, jas. got a minute? what's up? well, uh, they asked me to come out here and see if maybe you want to come in for a little private talk. maybe we can do something about the old man. who's they? they just, uh, told us to come out here and see if you would be interested in a deal. that's all. they just want us to come get you. you wouldn't be playing any games, would you? now look, if they'd have wanted to hurt you, they would have done it a long time ago. yeah. what do you think? well, if it will help. yeah, why not? columbus took a chance, didn't he? there you go. and look what happened to the indians. just go around the other side. hey. he!!! h' well, we worked him over then we worked him over again but still no deal. - well, where is he? - he's out back. well now, what in the world happened to you, blue elk? what's the matter with you, posner? i'm not one of your drunken indians. doing this to me is going to create a lot of attention. that's the general idea. in other words, blue elk, we're going to make an example out of you. ladies and gentlemen, we got a special attraction here tonight. our good friend blue elk is going to do an authentic indian war dance for you. ain't you, boy? a little music there, maestro. let's get out of here. give me that stick, drummer boy. h' that damn indian ain't gonna dance,jaycee. oh, he's gonna dance, all right. ain't you, boy? you gonna dance, ain't you, boy? 'cause if you don't dance, son, i'm gonna burn all the skin off the bottom of your feet. use your head, billy. i thought after the last time you'd see this creates problems, it doesn't solve them. what about your vision, you going to throw that away again, too? damn it, billy, does somebody else have to be killed before you'll learn? look. there is a human being lying down there who also happens to be my friend. now you tell me what do you want me to do, just leave him lie there? oh my god. come on, honey, this is insane. let's get out of here. why? it's time they got theirs. i said now. mrs. clure, how could you do this? dr. alem, you're a dentist. you took an oath. don't you dare turn away from me. look at him. how could you possibly enjoy this? what are you, a bunch of animals? aw, come on. you guys aren't going to really use all of these things now, are you? try us. if you're giving me a choice, i would just as soon quietly walk out of here and go on home. billy, stop it. somebody stop it. what are you, insane? all we want to do is take our friend blue elk and quietly walk out of here. not this time, billy. oh, posner. for god's sakes. there are witnesses. hundreds of them. he's not walking out of here. well, if that's the way it's going to be, buster, you're going to have to club me down first, are you ready to do that? if i have to. damn you. somebody get the police and hurry. just your feet against all of this? well, looks like we're just going to have to improvise. you know, i don't remember who it was, but somebody one time told me that if there's absolutely no way that you can get out of taking a terrible beating, the only intelligent thing for you to do is to try to get in the first lick. get him. i dislocated it. oh come on, it's just separated. quit bellowing like such a baby, i'll set it for you. bring it up. this part's going to hurt you. oh, posner. look, up until now, it has been just a couple of broken bones. so why don't you put the gun away, and back off. tell me something. were posners all born to be jackasses? if you miss me, you're going to hit one of your own men. please. i'm asking you nice, if that will help. why don't you just put the gun away let's quietly go on home. i'm arresting you for assault. you have no right to hold me here. i'm a free man. i'm arresting you too. one false move and i'll kill you. by god, i'll kill you. han, don't. please. l'm begging yo"- don't think i'm kidding. you satisfied? i'm taking you in, billy. no, i can't let you do that, cole. my god, man. when are you going to stop being a fool? if i let you take me in, we both know that would be a bullet in my head. not while i'm around. billy, i have to do this. no, cole. i'm not going to let you take me. it's a full-scale riot. they want the guard and the standby federal troops. yeah, who's screaming the loudest? you want them in alphabetical order? i heard posner's been killed. are you sure? yes, sir. how? billy jack. well, get him. i'm afraid we can't, sir. the whole world saw it, it was clearly self-defense. i said arrest him. glad you got here, colonel. you have no legal right to be here. sorry, ma'am. we're taking our orders directly from the governor's the governor's office. this show of force is just going to fan reaction. is that what you want? just what are your orders? to stay in this position until billy jack is placed under arrest. on top of everything else, now it starts to rain. i don't know, billy. maybe i should have listened and cut back on some of those exposes. you know what i think? no, what? i think that your refusal to stop those exposes and give advice is kind of a cop out. just what do you mean by that? well, by not ever giving advice you don't ever have the awesome responsibility of someone following your advise and making a terrible mistake. maybe getting hurt. it's kind of a nice, safe way to do it. are you accusing me of being afraid of responsibility? in some ways, yes. why else didn't you speak up about the exposes? i mean, after nixon resigned, why didn't you do something about it then? because i thought the kids were doing the right thing. your trouble is that you think everybody is pure of heart and gives a damn. what's that supposed to mean? well, you think that all you have to do is bring all these injustices out in the open and everybody's going to rise up and do something about it. look what happened to kennedy after chappaquiddick. or all the crooks with nixon and watergate. things went right on. people forget. come on, to hell with all that. the only important thing now is how can we get out of this mess without somebody getting hurt. i think you've got to try and slip out of here any way you can. it's funny. last time you were the one who couldn't wait for me to surrender. it's not funny. it's totally different this time. they're going to kill you, billy. how many kids were shot at that kent state and all those other-- what in the hell does that have to do with anything? it has everything to do with it. if they have to force their way in here looking for me a lot of people are going to get hurt. now look at who's the nonviolent one. no, i'm not being nonviolent. i'm just trying to buy a little bit of time. besides, they wouldn't dare hurt me now. carl. don't anybody move. all right, i'll surrender peaceably if i have the governor's personal word that you'll take all these troops, move off the campus and clear out of the reservation. those are the governor's orders. we're to pull out just as soon as you're in jail. that's the deal, billy. you heard it personally? that's right, billy. i was there. all right. i'll be down shortly. look. i came up here so fast i forgot to bring bullets. come on. they wouldn't dare do something to me now, it'd be much too obvious. i'm sorry, carl, but this warrant is from the state's attorney general. he's under state custody. the hell he is. - i'll take him in. - no, you won't. the attorney general received orders directly from the state supreme court and gave them personally to me. i'm sorry, carl. then i'll follow along and make sure nothing happens. he's yours, stanley. move that truck. are you going to move that truck or am i? now move it. sergeant, do you think we have someone who can do something about this? what the hell is that? just a precaution, ma'am. what do you mean precaution, i thought the deal was when billy surrendered the governor would take all you gestapo out of here. don't bite at me, lady. i'm just an order taker. all right. go ahead and take your leak. i never said i had to take a leak. regulations. pick it up. it may be dangerous out there in the dark. now, that's the funniest thing. you know, one time, i don't remember where, somebody told me that if at any time i was ever arrested and they gave me a handgun and said something about taking a leak-- oh! my god, man. do you realize what they will do to us? shut up and fan out. i'm not going out in the dark after him. are you nuts? to hell with you. i know i hit him. fan out. move it. one sound and i tear out the windpipe. now get your handgun out and bring it up to me very easy. all right. now, i want the keys to these cuffs and the coil wire from this car and the microphone. you understand? real slow. well, did you see anything? no, sir. not a damn sign of him. yes, there is. this looks like blood. turn on the headlights, ed. swing it over here. i was wrong when i said to turn the other cheek. brute power can only be met by brute power. we've got to fight back. better than that, we can bomb the dam. shut up. we'll get that coverage on cbs. we don't want to hear some speech. shut up! shut up! listen to me. listen to me. listen to me. listen to me. now, jean, built this school without any help from us and she does not need any help from us to rip it down. she can do just fine on her own if that's what she wants. i think she has a right to, you know, voice an opinion on what she wants. stop that. as long as this is the end of our dream, and the end of our school, i think we should let jean talk. stop. all of you. damn it, i'm mad. and you, jocelyn, i don't care if you want a speech or not, you're going to hear one, baby. i've never asked for one thing from one of you in this school in my life and damn it i'm going to ask now. i've decided this minute after sitting here and watching you guys, i'm going to stop giving. and i'm going to demand that you give me five minutes of your lousy time, and believe me, right now it's plenty lousy. i can tell you, i can promise you, if the cop came into this room that shot billy jack, i'd shoot him. i'd shoot him. i know that. but god help me he's not here now so i don't have to and i can think a little bit. now, we could go out there. some of us would get shot. a few of you would get killed. you, maybe, jocelyn. you can die now if you want to. go ahead. what's a life? it's easy, you can make them like that, right? dying is a big step, and if we wanted to, and if we really want to die and if we really want to ruin this school and totally destroy it, i think we can do it just as easily tomorrow as we can tonight. and it may give us a chance to find out why we're doing this. why, what's this happening for? my feeling is, and i know right now it doesn't mean a damn thing to any of you but i'm going to say it anyway, i feel that right now this is our crucial test. oh, we're all big mouths. we've got great mouths in telling about this great love we have here. and what it means. and boy this whole school is really built on it, isn't it? i saw it tonight. it was beautiful. just gorgeous. but the question is can this great love withstand what they are doing to us out there right now? or is that brute violence the thing that's going to overcome the world? now, you all know danny, and you know the tremendous love and time carol has put in to what everyone told us was an absolutely hopeless case. she has been working for over one month to try and teach him a song because he's wanted to come up here on this stage like you big guys, you big shots, and sing. well, there may not be a platform here tomorrow, there may not be a school here tomorrow. you may not be here tomorrow. you may not be here tomorrow, because you may decide to go out and get yourselves shot. so i'm going to ask you one small favor. can you give danny his chance to be a big guy? and i hope to god he doesn't turn out like some of you. so carol, danny, would you please come up now and please, let him have his chance. ready? want to start us off? we did it. all the way through it. good. thank you. i'm well aware of that, but ask for them anyway. i don't give a damn, we need some help. all right. well, they won't pull out. we're trying to ask for federal marshals. has anybody gotten through to the governor yet? oh, jean, i've been trying to get him all afternoon. no, he doesn't have time for a phone call. but look at him. he's acting like the archangel gabriel. so i pledge to you that while we will never provoke any confrontation-- - damn you liar. - ...we will never surrender one square foot of this state to any lawless anarchists. wherever the first firebomb is thrown, wherever the first brick is thrown, wherever the first house is set on fire, then we will make our move. i have been in contact with washington and have been promised full support. well, so much for any hope of getting the federal marshals. and to every citizen in this state, let me be perfectly clear. we will move with everything in our power to protect all life-- oh, no. would you believe it? look at that. this has been a remote telecast direct from the governor's office at the state capital. god above. how can they be so stupid? no, it's not stupid. it's a well thought-out plan. oh, i almost forgot. call joe, tell him i won't be in to work k for three or four more days. please, please be careful. don't worry, for god's sakes. why is mommy so upset? well, she's just being silly, danny. now give your old dad a hug. it's gotta last me a couple days. the governor's office wants verification that radicals are pouring into the school from all over the state. - verified. - verified. all right. now, it's your job to cover the hill. any kid comes up from the school you warn him once. you fire a warning shot in the air and then you shoot to kill. now, they've got snipers all over the place out there. is that clear? do you understand that? does he really expect us to shoot college kids? you're damned right. their snipers will hit you without batting an eye. pardon me for sounding stupid, but, uh, what are we shooting them for? h' the medicine failed. those bullets are killing you. grandfather said it's because you didn't respect your vision. you acted the same way after as you did before. grandfather is right. but we still have to stop them, because they're going to try to kill jean. will any of you help me? please. i can't do it alone. ah! let's burn their supply shack. have any of you guys seen danny? please, have any of you seen danny? - no. - yeah, i think i saw him running back towards the girls' dorm. thank you has danny been through here? - you mean little danny? - yes. yeah, well, i think i saw him go down to the bonfire. carol, you can't go down there. i have to. i have to find danny. carol, please. now they've set a shack on fire. you better send a fire truck and more men to push them back. right. over. form your lines. form your lines, gentlemen. this is jean roberts at the freedom school. i have urgent information that can stop all this. tell the governor he's got to get on the phone now. wasn't that a sniper? sure looks like it. well, why didn't you fire back? i'm not doing anything until i get my orders. why don't you just go call an ambulance. governor? yes. any kind of statement from you will calm things down considerably. would you please let me go out and tell them anything? anything direct from you? if the students draw back, and seal themselves in the dormitory, then i'll pull back the militia. if not, we'll stop this at all costs. well, you pull back your militia and i'll get the kids inside. god above, at least give me that chance. - have you seen danny? - no, i've been with joanne. try the playground, i'll try the barn. he's probably down with his burro. general, there is a sniper. lieutenant stowe, take your squad around the hill to the other side of that wall and see if you can find that sniper. yes, sir. what kind of buck shot are you using? double ought. that's equivalent to a .38 caliber, sir. i know what it's equivalent to but if it will kill a deer, it will kill those bastards. sieg heil! sieg heil! hendrick, fire a warning shot. what the hell was that? the sniper, he's firing at us. god, they're really shooting at us. this is sergeant tibbs at the north wall. being fired on by a sniper. one man's been hit. over. they're firing on all sides, sir. damn it to hell, return fire. all state troopers. fire at will. danny? stop it. stop it. stop it. stop it! carol. what the hell are you waiting for? come on, move it. not in the damn air, mister. down into the crowd. now. carol? danny? danny? please someone help me! please help! what the hell? colonel, what's going on down there? help me! under authority of the treaty of 1868, i am arresting you for being illegally on indian land. if you resist, or if you want to continue this senseless slaughter of these unarmed students who are here under our protection, then you'll have to shoot your way through us. this is a monumental step you're taking. you give us no other choice. if this country must have another civil war, then let it start here. what the hell is he doing? all right. i'll notify the governor. somebody help us, please. no, we're pulling out. you should have been here tonight, old buddy. we got a couple of them. it's funny. i thought the freedom school was a symbol of everything good and right in the american spirit. we had kids of different races, ideologies, religions, all living and working together in peace and harmony. for all the kids at the school, we really want you back. aren't you going to open it again? it's not the kids. it's the townspeople. they not only supported the shooting, but if you can believe it, they were actually happy about it. what do they think? will he come back or is he dead yet? no, not yet. some of the old men say that he's lost the will to live. go see if you can find jean and get her up here. you have not learned enough to come over to this side permanently. why? my spirit progresses so poorly on the other side. that's because you don't value your visions. you must carefully listen to them and change your life according to what they say. i understand that. but why can't i do that here? you must go back, for when people can see how someone as violent as you can change and find inner peace, then you will set a good example. after you have gone back and practiced the fourth way, then you will meet your spiritual guide. well, how am i supposed to do that? i don't even know what the fourth way is. my friend will tell you. but you will not be able to reach the fourth way until you stop covering your weaknesses with violent acts. the fourth and highest level is when, no matter what they do to your body they cannot touch your soul, because you are so deeply into your own center. then you see violence and anger and bullying not as threats, but as cover-ups used by panicked men who are frightened and in pain. instead of hating them you truly feel sorry for their weakness, and can easily turn and offer them your other cheek. now go back and do what you must do. and take carol, for she will help you carry on the teachings. how are all the kids? i don't know. i haven't been back there yet. what do you mean you haven't been back there? you mean you, you haven't been back to the school? why not? don't they need your help getting the whole thing started again? you mean you really want to go through all that again? are you telling me you're quitting? look over there. well, that's a strong sign. that doesn't change your mind at all? tomorrow, all over the world kids are going to march to rebuild the school. we're going to try to start other schools, all over, just like you've done for us here. instead of stopping the exposes, we've got to work harder now than ever. with ford and rockefeller, nothing will really change. everyone suddenly forgot about all the urgent reforms so we've got to keep on fighting until those reforms really happen. we've all decided. everybody. we're going to dedicate the march to you. please come in. ii'