provided by explosiveskull https://twitter.com/kaboomskull jets! hey, hey! come on. ha! yeah! come on, come on! beat it. oh, yeah! hey! hey! hey, you! come on! jets! come on, baby john! hey! alright now, all you separate! separate! separate! you're driving me to my grave, ya pack of jackals. watch yourself, sergeant krupke, you're gonna inflame your asthma, shouting like that. why don't you leave the puerto ricans alone, riff? christ almighty. and you lot, you're in new york now. you got a problem, you call the cops. youse can't play at being cops yourselves. pero we call the cops, you show up and arrest us! you're never around when these hijueputas mess up our stores and our streets. see, i get confused when you say "our streets," seeing how these streets are ours by right - of being born here, amigo. - the jets! how many times do i gotta tell you, bernardo? i don't speak spic. hey, hey! that's enough! that's enough! come on! break it up! jesus wept, baby john. who did that to your ear? ow! which one of them nailed you? who cracked your head open, hombre? in english. same guy who nailed your ear, maybe? maybe. i don't remember. i realise if any of you helps me out, you might spoil your chance to murder each other over control of this earthly paradise. the jets control it and you know it. uh-huh, yeah, but, golly gee, balkan, not according to the new york city committee for slum clearance, which has decided to pull this whole hellmouth down to the bedrock, and you're in the way. aah! nice reflexes, muchacho. so, any day now, all of you are gonna be evicted. you'll have to "vamoose," as we say in spanish. we're not relocating. we have rights. rights, huh? where are they? you back down, bernardo. don't be stupid. some night, muchacho, maybe you'll get to see me fight. 'course, you'll have to leave your gun at home, lieutenant. evict yourself off my crime scene, bernardo. vamos. chick, chick, chick. chickie, chickie, chickie. a boxer and a singer. get a load of this guy. you want me to book the whole bunch of you? keep up the serenade and see what... ¡viva puerto rico libre! i am ordering you clowns to disperse! now! we're outnumbered, boys. thousands more are on their way, and once they're here, they pop out kids like crazy. am i right? tell me which one of them nailed baby john's ear and i'll put him out of circulation. work with me, fellas. or they're gonna drive you off your turf. you said it was the slum clearance committee that was driving us off, now it's the prs. you gotta get your story straight, lieutenant schrank. we're very impressionable. most of the white guys who grew up in this slum climbed their way out of it. irish, italian, jews. nowadays, their descendants live in nice houses and drive nice cars and date nice girls you'd want to marry. your dads or your granddads stayed put, drinking and knocking up some local piece who gave birth to you. the last of the can't-make-it caucasians. what's a gang without its terrain, its turf? you're a month or two away from finding out, one step ahead of the wrecking ball. and in this uncertain world, the only thing you can count on is me. i'm here to keep the civil peace until the last building falls. and if you boys make trouble on my turf, riff, hand to heart, you're headed to an upstate prison cell for a very long time. by the time you get out, this will be a shiny new neighbourhood of rich people in beautiful apartments with puerto rican doormen to chase trash like you away. wait! i got a question for you, lieutenant. how tall did you used to be before you, you know, "schrank"? come on, sergeant, ride with me. long as i know you, riff, you ain't had the sense, god gave a pigeon. come here, let's see what he done. come on. well, that's gonna scar, buddy boy. - you think so? - frankenstein time. they can't make us up and leave. we're here, ain't we? american citizens, which them spics ain't! them they can chase off, not us. puerto ricans are americans, - you ignoramus. - ah, go eat a green banana! puerto rico's like a state, ain't it? so, deez is right... no, it's something else. there are only 48 states, - ya dead battery. - what do you know? whatever they are, citizens or who gives a fart, what we know is... they ain't us. so, spill it, krazy kat, what are you thinking? i'm thinking it's past time for a rumble. for a all-in, all-out, once-and-for-all, winner-takes-all, high-noon-shootout- at-the-o.k. corral rumble! wild blue yonder! about time! we do 'em like we done the egyptian kings. - and the emeralds. - and the bishops. alright, so tony and me will sit down with... - tony? - yeah, tony. what's this got to do with him? he ain't stood with us once since he got out. he's on parole. he's gotta be careful, is all. he cannot be running around... tony's done with the jets, riff. he ain't done with the jets. like that's even a thing! you cannot be done with this family. maybe it wasn't a thing before, but now, riff? the lieutenant's right. what are the jets if we got no territory? - that's right! - yeah. schrank doesn't know his ass from his elbow. look, tony and me started the jets cause none of us would even be here if it wasn't for all of us. and all you know it. when you're a jet you're a jet all the way from your first cigarette to your last dyin' day when you're a jet if the spit hits the fan you got brothers around you're a family man you're never alone you're never disconnected you're home with your own when company's expected you're well-protected then you are set with a capital j which you'll never forget till they cart you away when you're a jet you stay a jet so, meet tony and me at the dog days dance at the gym tonight. we can't rumble at the gym, it'll be lousy with cops! and maybe we've had enough trouble with the puerto ricans for one day? relax. it's a social mixer. so we'll mix until the time's right to fix the rumble for tomorrow night. be there 10:00 p.m., punctual-like, dressed to kill, walking tall! we always walk tall! we're jets! the greatest. when you're a jet you're the top cat in town you're the gold-medal kid with the heavyweight crown when you're a jet you're the swingin'est thing little boy, you're a man little man you're a king the jets are in gear our cylinders are clickin' the sharks'll steer clear cause every puerto rican's a lousy chicken here come the jets like a bat out of hell someone gets in our way someone don't feel so well here come the jets little world, step aside better go underground better run, better hide we're drawin' the line so keep your noses hidden we're hangin' a sign says "visitors forbidden" and we ain't kiddin' here come the jets, yeah and we're gonna beat every last buggin' gang on the whole buggin' street on the whole ever mother-lovin' street yeah! - can. - come on. just for an hour, only a little hour. you used to like dancing. - no monkeyshines. - come on, riff, can. christ almighty. you know, there's dust on everything. you know, ever since... hey, i swear on what's holy, it is just girls sipping punch and music... - and the sharks. - and the spics. - and a rumble. - which all you gotta do... you're on your own, pal-o-mine. ...is help me haggle over the terms of the rumble. you don't need me helping ya screw up your life. you know how i get. i will start runnin' my mouth. you... you got command. you are west side legendary! and, tony, tony, the jets. i gave 'em my word you'd show. - why would you do that? - because... because it's a rumble! we need you if we're going to war. you can't refuse us now. and because i know you. or i thought i did, before you got all unlike yourself, before you went upstate. tony? i'm coming! it's like you're still in prison, and the old witch is the warden. she gave me a job and a place to stay. she's always been there for me, like nobody else. - oh, nobody, huh? thanks, pal. - so don't call her... thanks a big fat lot. yeah. you know i didn't mean you wasn't there. you was always there. - womb to tomb. - sperm to worm. so, come with me to the dance, huh? come on. is it graziella? that what's eatin' you? no, it ain't grazie. she said that you and she was done. it's good that you're keeping her company. even before you got locked up, you know? it's cool. don't get all the way you get. grazie's a great girl, and the jets are the greatest. and you, you're like, you know, blood to me. but i'm scared of myself, riff. what i done to that kid. what i almost done. you gotta get over that. what is the point in beating yourself up? i wanna be unlike how i was. cause i was disappearing down a sewer and taking you and everything with me. - tony, you coming? - yeah, he heard ya! i had time. lots of it. locked up like that, and for the first time ever, i took a look inside, and that was rough, doing that, but i... i gotta stay with myself. you know what i mean? maybe stay... by myself, just for... yeah, you know what? you're just too deep for me, kid. you know, i don't know who i am. and who cares who i am? nobody, including me. i know that this dust that's covering everything right now, that's the four-story buildings that was standing here when you went upstate a year ago. you know, i wake up to everything i know either getting sold or wrecked, or being taken over by people that i don't like. and they don't like me. and you know what's left out of all that? the jets. my guys. my guys, who are just like me. who are just like you. i can't go to the dance, riff! my parole officer said no going out! i told you i don't want you in my store. i'm a paying customer. you've been stealing from me since you were six. now, get out. i mean it. and leave tony alone. he is not allowed to associate with criminals. look, don't fall off that ladder. at your age, brittle bones. that's all i'm saying. you'll pay for that candy. five cents. on the counter! stand me for a milky way, huh? least you could do. womb to tomb wasn't never a joke for me. don't be like that. just cause i can't go to a dance? tony, i don't tell you who to hang out with. but... "but those boys are juvenile delinquent. "they're no good for you. and you better watch out." hey. "you make fun of the way i talk "one more time, blondie..." i'm gonna talk to riff and tell him that he can't just come in here and not pay. tony, wake up. i know you love riff, but he hates puerto ricans. that is not you. riff don't hate you. i married a gringo. he thinks that makes me a gringa, which it don't. and i ain't. well, it's guys like riff and me, when things ain't familiar, we just got this instinct to, you know... you... even as an angry little boy, somehow there was this... this promise that you couldn't keep hidden. not from you. and sometimes, i see you smiling, like you're waiting for the, what do you call, irish sweepstakes, instead of sweeping the floor like i pay you to do. i sweep as good as you pay. - yeah? - look it. ooh. you see? promise. you bring dead floors back to life. keep looking for better, mi milagro. like you always done. could be? who knows? there's something due any day i will know right away soon as it shows - it may come cannonballing - aah! down through the sky gleam in its eye bright as a rose who knows? it's only just out of reach down the block, on a beach under a tree i got a feeling there's a miracle due gonna come true coming to me could it be? yes, if could something's coming something good if i can wait something's coming i don't know what it is but it is gonna be great with a click, with a shock phone'll jingle, door'll knock open the latch something's coming don't know when but it's soon catch the moon one-handed catch around the corner or whistling down the river come on, deliver to me will it be? yes, it will maybe just by holding still it'll be there come on, something come on in don't be shy meet a guy pull up a chair the air is humming and something great is coming who knows? it's only just out of reach down the block, on a beach maybe tonight maybe tonight maybe tonight maría! maría! they're gonna be here in five minutes. mamita. didn't you hear me...? what are you doing? ay, nena... no, no, no, no. it look like a shroud, it's so big and so white. it wouldn't look like a shroud if it was red. speak english. in gimbels, there are lots of dresses that fit me. and you don't shop in gimbels. you clean in gimbels. - ay. - mm. ahorrar tus chavitos, fancy pants. aw. sí. ay, turn around. hmm. ay, anita. oh! ay, don't mess up my hair. i just got it to act right. ugh. ok. get your shoes on. bernardo will be so mad if we make him late. and i want to dance. bernardo's always mad. necesito lipstick. i'm too short. i need, please. please, some lipstick, and maybe some eyeliner. - hmm. - the boys think i'm a kid. you are a kid, kiddo. i'm 18. i have a job. i've been taking care of papi since i was six. bernardo thinks i'm a baby. who cares what bernardo thinks? chino is the only boy who counts. oh, chino. mi primer baile en nueva york and i have to go with the zángano i don't want to. ay, be nice. chino is a very sweet boy. you can't take that personally. he's got to be like that. it's how he got to be a great boxer. everyone's afraid of him. mm, but i'm not. anita, we're home. are you ready? chino's here. you gotta dance with her. - i don't know how to dance. - ay. she's bossy. she gonna show you how. don't move. you always look out for me. you're the best friend i ever had. i owe you so much. but i just wish that... you're the smartest friend i ever had. maria needs to meet smart guys like you. let me join the sharks. ay, muchacho, not this again. por favor, let me help you protect our people. no. you keep out of that. it's stupid. we gotta do it, but it's stupid. maría can't like a lambeojo who just works day and night. never stands up like her brother does. she says all the time she doesn't want anyone like me. just be chino. but be a chino who dances. you look like mami. and, chino, qué guapo. he took off from night school just so he could take you to the dance. gracias, chino. night school, accounting, and... and, chino, what else are you learning about? adding machine repair. and just think, how many adding machines in new york city. chino is gonna be rich. well, not exactly, pero... boxers get rich. boxers get their brains knocked out. bossy, como te dije, y una wiseass. the gringos tonight, they stare because... oh, like you don't stare. because our girls make their girls look lousy. the first gringo boy who smiles at you... pow! ay, mr. juvenile delincuente. vamos. i fold you she likes him. you want her to pick him, keep telling her she has to like him. hey, get away from her, you lesbo! - get out of here! - hey, hey, what are you doing? how about you give me some room? you wanna dance, buddy? get back! let's back up! back up! everyone, keep calm now! contain the aggression, ok? what's the matter with you guys? pretty girls wanting to dance and all youse can think of is to beat up on each other. thank you, officer. alright! alright! so, tonight is a social experiment, boys and girls, brotherhood and all that, and you're the guinea pigs. thank you, right on cue. be nice to each other! give us some hope! just for a little bit, then you can revert back 10 your true feral selves. now, boys, get into a big circle facing in. and, girls, make a small circle on the inside, facing out. speak english in school-sponsored functions! now, everyone, please! you heard the man! all youse fall in! hey! hey! bernardo! anita! hey, buddy! yeah, riff! - ok. - sorry. - excuse us. - i'm sorry. boys, step it right. girls, left. and when the music stops, ya dance with whoever's in front of ya. come on! give it a chance! it's gonna... - mambo! - mambo! go! tony! anybodys! - good to see ya. - whoa! tony, i knew you'd come, buddy boy. i knew you'd come. hey! come and dance, yeah? yeah! mambo! mambo! alright. let's go, boys! let's go, boys! oh... yeah! yeah! hey! no, no, no. i just wanna give him a talk real quick. - hey, bernardo! - riff! bernardo! chino! it's funny, i wasn't planning on showin' up tonight. you don't like dancing? no. i mean, yeah. i like it. i like it a lot, dancing with you. it's just, you're, uh... you're tall. yeah, i know. you're not. you're not puerto rican? you're just figuring that out? from down here, i wasn't sure. is that ok? that i'm not? i don't know. since i... i never seen you before. this is my first time dancing in new york city, so, you tell me. is it ok? there's not much i can do about it, so... i'm sorry. you just... caught me by surprise, is all. i'm a by-the-book type. so... by the book? try me again. maría! maría! maría! maría. i'm glad to meet you, i'm... what were you doing under there with my sister? - bernardo, no! - maría! i wasn't doing nothing. back up there, bernardo. you ought to know better. ain't you learned nothing? i didn't mean no disrespect. i just wanted to dance with her. she don't wanna dance with you, american. come on, we're all americans, right? keep away from her, hijo de puta! hey, hey! now that sounded kinda rough, bernardo, and i ain't having it. youse gonna fight or youse gonna dance? i wanna dance, god damn it! god damn it, riff, you swore to me you wasn't starting nothing. you promised me that we could dance first and then you was only gonna challenge 'em... i am here to dance, girly girl. ain't that what we been doin'? challenge who to what? like i know. like he tells me anything. maría. thank you for the dance. sure. no, i mean, thank you for the dance and for the... ay... let's say... let's say we visit the head and we'll pow-wow friendly like. you, me, and my troublemaking buddy here. do you wanna start world war iii? ay, maría, maría. tony? come on. tony, come on. you walking away? hey! come on, man! you want to fight, right? not here. we gotta set it up. set it up? you mean like a date? all of you, and all of us. - we're busy guys. - mm-hmm. we got jobs. why should we play on the playground - with a bunch of...? - control of your territory, that's what you get. we keep clear out of your way, you're jet-free. if you win. we win, you see us coming, and we will keep coming, you sharks make like the rats and skedaddle. where? the river. - the docks. - the underpass. - the rail yards. - the salt shed. ¿dónde? de dónde está 57th and the river. wait! midnight tomorrow. weapons? fists. rocks. - bricks. - pipes. - chains. - knives? hey, we don't need no knives. you boys love your knives. better without knives. better for who is the question that comes to mind, but no knives. and no jazz till then. copasetic? riff, i don't know, that about knives... them spics sleep with their switchblades in their teeth. - action. action. - they ain't gonna leave their knives at home. your friendly friend. what about him? i'll see him tomorrow night? you bet your ass. tell him... tony. tell tony i look forward to that. maría. the most beautiful sound i ever heard maría maría, maría maría all the beautiful sounds of the world in a single word maría maría maría maría maría, maría maría i've just met a girl named maría and suddenly that name will never be the same to me maría i've just kissed a girl named maría and suddenly i've found how wonderful a sound can be maría say it loud and there's music playing say it soft and it's almost like praying maría i'll never stop saying maría maría maría maría, maría maría maría maría maría maría say it loud and there's music playing say it soft and it's almost like praying maría i'll never stop saying maría the most beautiful sound i ever heard maría it's me! are you crazy? you can't... what are you doing, spooking around como una rata? come down. - meet me on the corner... - no! let's meet on the, uh... what's that mean? it means "go away." can i come up? no. - but i found you. - please. my brother's so angry now, he might... i'll make him like me. everybody does. there's nobody who everybody likes. yeah, but, 50 long as you like me, i'm ok with that. please, you have to go. ay, dios mío. no, no, no. maría! we're home. need a little rum? it'll help you sleep. who needs to sleep? oh, not here. in the bedroom. ¿dónde estás? where are you? ay! is it locked? sí, but there's no key. well, that's against the law. you ought to report that. ok, i will. now, please go, or something bad will happen... run away with me. i'm serious. don't laugh. sí, serious. maybe tomorrow i'll run away with you. tomorrow? deal. wait! tomorrow, where? i can't see ya. careful. what's your name? tony. see you tomorrow, tony. - you promise me? - what? you gotta see me tomorrow. nobody else. only me. only you you're the only thing i'll see forever in my eyes, in my words and in everything i do nothing else but you ever and there's nothing for me but maría every sight that i see is maría tony, tony always you every thought i'll ever know everywhere i go - you'll be - all the world is only you and me tonight, tonight it all began tonight i saw you and the world went away tonight, tonight there's only you tonight what you are what you do what you say today, all day i had the feeling a miracle would happen i know now i was right for here you are and what was just a world is a star tonight tonight tonight the world is full of light with suns and moons all over the place tonight, tonight the world is wild and bright going mad shooting sparks into space today the world was just an address a place for me to live in no better than alright but here you are and what was just a world is a star tonight maría! tomorrow. tomorrow. sí. wait! what time? uh, tomorrow night? i work. 2:00? pm? 72nd street subway station. uptown side. sí. sí, ok. now... wait! wait! i forgot why i called you. i'll wait till you remember. tony is antonio? anton. te adoro, anton. te adoro, maría. good night good night sleep well and when you dream dream of me tonight maría! breakfast, niña. last night i dreamed i was back in puerto rico. in my dream, we had six kids. six kids? marry a cat. i've been asking you for five years. mm-hmm. you want to marry me, then leave the gringos alone. i'm gonna make quick work of the jets. you sound like the funny papers. "the jets." english. we gotta practice. - anita maría teresa... - oh. josefina... good morning. i'm right here. stay here and don't fight? what fight? don't worry about that. you don't have a fight till next week. the match with that thompson guy. what was his name? your brother has something to say to you. i apologise for behaving last night like a... like a gangster. it was embarrassing. and he's apologising. perdón. i'm a grown-up now, bernardo. i can dance with anyone i like. as long as he's puertorriqueño. but why? tony's a nice boy. tony? tony. who cares if he's a...? i don't know what he is. a yankee? he's a polack. that's what he is. a big, dumb polack. "polack," says the spic. now you sound like a real american. i don't want you to marry a gringo. marry him? i danced with him, bernardo. for a minute, until you... you're crazy. i can't talk to you anymore. i was ok on my own. just me and papi for five years without you, while you came here, where you do everything you want. you... you study, and you make money... and he boxes. sí. and you have your boxing. and he fights in the streets. don't fight with the jets. i want you to be happy. mm. here, dead man, eat your eggs. and everyone, speak english. but i'm here, too. and i... i want to make a life, a home. maybe go to city college like rosalía's cousin, virginia. i want to be happy here. english. puerto rico, sí. that is what you think. - i'm gonna think for myself. - you keep away from him. as long as you're in my house... this ain't your house. she pays rent here same as me and you. this is about family. ah! maría... maybe chino and your friends fall down at your feet, and maybe you scare the americanos when you make fists and angry faces... and i am not interested in what you have to say. you want to know where my home is? it's where i pay rent. right here, where i work my fingers raw, mending pants and hemming neckties so that i can earn enough money to pay other girls to sew for me, so that someday i can rent a shop of my own in this great, big, beautiful nueva york. ah. and if you think that i'm going back home to puerto rico with six kids that i put to bed hungry every night, amor de mi vida, you are dreaming. in puerto rico, our kids won't get fat like the kids in new york. puerto rico you lovely island island of tropical breezes always the pineapples growing always the coffee blossoms blowing and the money owing and the babies crying and the people trying i like the island manhattan i know you do! smoke on your pipe and put that in i like to be in america ok by me in america everything free in america for a small fee in america buying on credit is so nice one look at us and they charge twice i have my own washing machine what do you have though to keep clean? skyscrapers bloom in america cadillacs zoom in america industry boom in america twelve in a room in america lots of new housing with more space lots of doors slamming in our face i'll get a terrace apartment better get rid of your accent life can be bright in america if you can fight in america life is alright in america if you're all white in america hey, hey, hey! la la, la la, la america america la la, la la, la america america ay, ay, ay, ay. here you are free and you have pride long as you stay on your own side free to do anything you choose free to wait tables and shine shoes everywhere grime in america organized crime in america terrible time in america you forget i'm in america hey, hey, hey! hey, hey, hey! i think i go back to san juan i know a boat you can get on bye-bye! everyone there will give big cheer! hey! everyone there will have moved here ow, ow, ow! ow, ow, ow! ow, ow, ow! - hey! - hey! - hey! - hey! hey! hey! "i'm happy to see you again." so, who are you so happy to see again? last one. "you look beautiful." ¿de verdad? "de veda..." ¿una puertorriqueña? i wanna do like doc, find me a puerto rican girl. ay, tony, you don't have enough troubles? i don't wanna jinx it, but maybe i'm done with trouble. you are never done with troubles. nunca. - nunca. "nunca" means "never"? - uh-huh. what's "forever"? like, "i wanna be with you forever." you don't wanna start, maybe, with "i'd like to take you out to coffee"? no. come on, tell me. "i wanna take you to chock full o' nuts "for a cream cheese sandwich on a raisin bread"? this ain't casual like that. oh. "i want to be with you forever." "with you." "para siempre." "siempre." "siempre." "forever." i wanna show you something. it's a surprise, uptown. - you seem sorta... - there's a fight tonight. between my brother and his friends. - news to me. - and your friend who helped you when bernardo... riff. tell him, riff, tell him not to. it's because of us they're gonna fight, verdad? well, get your brother to call it off. bernardo's too angry. well, riff's angry, too, so... come on. this place we're going, it's, uh, up past harlem. it's practically at the tip of the island. my brother... there's so much more against him than riff. he's angry because... the whole world has been against riff since he was born. do you think it's easier for us? uh, well, i think you come from families, homes. you and bernardo, you have hope. you think riff has that? riff could have hope if he didn't try to take hope from people he doesn't know. riff didn't start this, it was bernardo. he came after me. just cause i wanted to dance with you. tony, if someone gets hurt because of what we do... what did we do to anyone? we don't do anything wrong, liking each other, - pero... - maría. i don't just like you. we can't pretend what we do doesn't cause trouble. i can't talk my guys outta making trouble. trouble's what they're made of. all of you go suck a pickle. you think we're going to jail? they're fishing, is all. asking questions. which we ain't answering. so, you're gonna tell me where and when the rumble's happening... or i'm gonna send you straight to the tombs. i don't know where the rumble is. i don't even know what a rumble is. uh, they don't tell me nothing. they know i can't keep any secrets. they tell you when to show up, right? nah, they don't. i just hang around until somebody says "let's go." and then? i go. i can't go to jail, deez. dry up, weepy, or else go sit on the ladies' bench with the other dickless wonder. - leave her be. - get stuffed, why don't ya? go back to the zoo, why don't ya? go suck on your sister's titty, why don't ya? you guinea hyena. hey, krupke! you made a mistake. she ain't a jet. she nags us all the time. hey, i ought to be a jet. tony told me... she ain't a jet. - she ain't even a boy. - pipe down, a-rab. - she's a dumb girl. - i ain't a girl! she looks like some kinda biological disaster, but i pantsed her once, and under oath, she's a girl! i said i ain't no goddamn girl, you shrivel-dick dago pansy! get off of him, cut it out! now! you're gonna break her arm, you godforsaken... i'm trying to get her off of him. back up! god! my ulcer. it's a freaking felony! assaulting an officer of the... sit yourselves some place and don't move a muscle till i get back! don't even sweat! youse hear me? hey, a girl gave me a nosebleed. she just bought herself a ticket to the house of detention. what about us? - rikers, most likely. - rikers? what, you ain't never been arrested before? he ain't never been nothing before. - that'd kill my ma. - oh. i can't go to jail. you won't. long as you remember two things. one, tell 'em what they wanna hear. and two, don't tell 'em nothing. hey, garbage! who? me, officer krupke? well, look at youse. you feckless frigging disappointments. now, give me one good reason i shouldn't throw the book at ya. dear kindly sergeant krupke you gotta understand it's just our bringin' upke that gets us out of hand our mothers all are junkies our fathers all are drunks golly moses naturally we're punks gee, officer krupke we're very upset we never had the love that every child ought to get we ain't no delinquents we're misunderstood deep down inside us there is good there is good there is good there is good there is untapped good like inside the worst of us is good aw, that's a touching good story. let me tell it to the world! oh, just tell it to the judge. whoo! get over there. dear kindly judge, your honour my parents treat me rough with all their marijuana they won't give me a puff they didn't wanna have me but somehow i was had leapin' lizards that's why i'm so bad right! officer krupke you're really a square this boy don't need a judge he needs a analyst's care it's just his neurosis that ought to be curbed he's psychologically disturbed i'm disturbed! we're disturbed we're disturbed we're the most disturbed like we're psychologically disturbed hear ye, hear ye. in the opinion of this court, the boy's depraved on account of he ain't had a normal home. hey, i'm depraved on account of i'm deprived! so, take this nut to a headshrinker. oh, why not? come on. go, go, go. my father is a bastard my ma's an s.o.b. my grandpa's always plastered my grandma pushes tea my sister wears a moustache my brother wears a dress goodness gracious - that's why i'm a mess - yes! officer krupke you're really a slob this boy don't need a doctor just a good honest job society's played him a terrible trick and sociologically he's sick - i am sick! - we are sick, we are sick we are sick, sick, sick like we're sociologically sick i did it! yeah! - officer, i'm guilty. - get out of here. in my professional opinion, what we got here is a run-of-the-mill juvenile delinquent, and juvenile delinquency is a social disease. ew, diesel, you got a social disease? bring him to a social worker. wait, can i catch it by touching him? get down. oh! dear kindly social worker they say go earn a buck like be a soda jerker which means like be a schmuck it's not i'm antisocial i'm only anti-work glory! osky! that's why i'm a jerk yee! officer krupke you've done it again this boy don't need a job he needs a year in the pen ok. it ain't just a question of misunderstood deep down inside him he's no good - i'm no good - we're no good, we're no good we're no earthly good like the best of us is no damn good the trouble is he's crazy the trouble is he drinks the trouble is he's lazy the trouble is he stinks the trouble is he's growin' the trouble is he's grown krupke, we've got troubles of our own gee, officer krupke we're down on our knees cause no one wants a fellow with a social disease gee, officer krupke what are we to do? gee, officer krupke krup you this is for you. this is the surprise. it look like a church. it's a museum now, you know. first time i saw this place, i was on a prison bus. up to the state prison in ossining. there was a rumble. and i busted up this kid. he was in the egyptian kings. he only didn't die because of luck, like, one more punch and he probably would've died. and i would've done it. i would've murdered this messed-up kid who wasn't no different from me. and for a year in prison and since i got out, i can't quit thinking about what i almost done. i think about killing him, and... and it's like i'm always just about to fall off the edge of the world's tallest building. i stopped falling the second i saw you. i shouldn't have asked you to stop the fighting. i don't want you to go anywhere near the fighting. don't laugh. it means i wanna be... i know what it means. i don't know what that... oh. - oh, that's... - don't laugh. i, tony... i, anton, take you, maría, - rich or poor... - i'm poor. i'm poorer. to love you and respect you. siempre. make of our hands one hand make of our hearts one heart make of our vows one last vow even death won't part us now make of our lives one life day after day one life now it begins now we start one hand one heart only death will part us now you're worried. but they're still my guys. - they'll listen to me. - but what if you can't? we can't be together while they're brawling all around us. because of us. i swear to you, maría, there won't be any fight. make of our lives one life day after day one life now it begins now we start one hand one heart - death won't part - even death won't part - us now - us now come see me tonight. you ever fired a gun before? sure, of course i have. what kind? colt. revolver. that so? what'd it shoot? bullets. - .32s. - colt shoots .22s. we got money. i don't sell heaters to unscrubbed boys. these guys, the ones we're rumbling with, they're bringing heat. cause they think we're bringing heat. so, we need to bring heat so they know that we ain't defenceless. and vice versa. mutually assured destruction. i don't know what that is. that's a smith and wesson, model 10. classic of its kind. if you want it, take it, why don't ya? fires trey eights. makes quite a hole for a little gun. it's loaded. you don't gotta cock it, even. you just squeeze the trigger and... you might as well. you remind me of your dad. leave it on the bar. what you got? whoa, whoa, whoa! - pow, pow, pow! - pow, pow, pow! - eat lead! - pow, pow, pow! - come on, you chicken! - pow, pow, pow! chicken, chicken, chicken! pow! pow, pow! you yellow flatfoot, come on! pow! pow! pow, pow! pow. gee whillikers, batman. since when you carry a rod? well, i don't got magic powers like you, superman, so i got this. promise to be with us tonight, i'll let you hold it. when are you gonna grow up? never probably. born to die young, daddy-o. they catch you with this, it's 15 years in attica. - call it off. - call what off? tell bernardo the cops found out about the rumble. tell him a rain check. hey, why should we call it off? we got a gun. shut up, tiger. stay out of this. you know we wouldn't even need a gun if you was with us? but you ain't, so let go of my goddamn gun. i paid for it. - you paid for it? - right. oh, ok, well, in that case, - oopsy-daisy. - tony. tony. tony! tony! tony! give me the gun! - call off the rumble. - come on, it's mine. it's yours? fellas, does it look to you like this is his gun? alright, let's get some beer and some weed and let's go to the zoo. like the old days, huh? yeah. i will if you will. you know me, brother. i don't look back. why? you afraid of what you're gonna see? no, i look ahead. i wanna be prepared in case they come prepared. so, give me the gun, tony. i mean it. now. boy, boy, crazy boy get cool, boy got a rocket in your pocket - keep coolly cool, boy - come on. don't get hot cause, man, you've got some high times ahead take it slow and daddy-o you can five it up - and die in bed - cut the crap! boy, boy, crazy boy stay loose, boy breeze it, buzz it easy does it turn off the juice, boy go, man, go but not like a yo-yo school boy just play it cool, boy real cool careful, buddy. careful yourself, superman. come on. - cool! - go! - crazy! - cool! - go! - crazy! go! - come on! - tony! i'm open! tiger, toss it! come on, let's go! boy, boy, crazy boy stay loose, boy breeze it, buzz it easy does it turn off the juice, boy just play it cool, boy real cool pow. pow. pow, pow! pow. pow. it's happening tonight. that's all we know. the morning papers filled with stories about dead kids. not on my watch. every block of lincoln square, every inch of san juan hill. i want the west side locked down. the jets are gonna have their day tonight the jets are gonna have their way tonight the puerto ricans grumble "fair fight" but when they start a rumble we'll rumble 'em right we're gonna hand 'em a surprise tonight we're gonna cut 'em down to size tonight we said, "ok, no rumpus no tricks" but just in case they jump us we're ready to mix tonight! we're gonna rock it tonight we're gonna jazz it up and have us a ball they're gonna get it tonight the more they turn it on the harder they'll fall well, they began it well, they began it and we're the ones to stop 'em once and for all tonight! - anita's gonna get her kicks tonight - ssh! we'll have our private little mix tonight he'll walk in hot and tired so what? don't matter if he's tired as long as he's hot - shh! - tonight tonight, tonight won't be just any night tonight there will be no morning star tonight, tonight i'll see my love tonight and for us stars will stop where they are today the minutes seem like hours the hours go so slowly and still the sky is light oh, moon, grow bright and make this endless day endless night the jets are comin' out on top tonight we're gonna watch bernardo drop tonight that puerto rican punk'll go down and when he's hollered uncle we'll tear up the town tonight, tonight we'll be in back of you, boy - right - won't be just any night we're gonna flatten him good right womb to tomb? sperm to worm! and then we'll have us a ball tonight - tonight, tonight - we're gonna rock it tonight - i'll see my love tonight - we're gonna jazz it tonight and for us stars will stop where they are we're gonna mix it tonight today the minutes seem like hours - they began it - the hours go so slowly - they began it - and still the sky is light we'll stop 'em once and for all we'll stop 'em once and for all oh, moon, grow bright and make this endless day endless night we're gonna rock it tonight tonight welcome to the north pole. it's salt. for when the streets ice up. kill the lights. promised your buddy was gonna be here. if you don't keep your word, jefe, how am i going to believe you'll keep out of our territory after... and just when all hope is lost... so, is this the shot heard round the world, or just, you know, more of your bullshit? don't ask me about shooting, pal. you're the one with the gun. that's right, and who are you? friend or foe? - you're out of control. - hey. i don't need it if you stand with us. here, take it. go on, it'll be safe with you. and you pitch in. i wanna talk to... i'm doing the talking now. - lets do it! - yeah! right now! - can i talk to you? - anything you need to say, - you can say through me. - we talked enough. let's try something else. you and me, we just got off on the wrong foot, is all. i always know which foot i'm on. we all know you can fight, bernardo. so, can you just quit dancing for a second... yeah, can you quit whispering in his ear? ...and listen to what i came here to tell you? i got nothing against you. and... and if i, somehow or other, if i offended you, i apologise. oye, pana, i thought we were going to fight. did you bring him flowers, too? come on, quit flirting with him! close his eyes! hey, can't you shut up for a single goddamn second? what are you afraid of? your parole officer? you are breaking my heart with this shit! - come on! - a convict? how long in prison? uh, a year. in prison, there were puerto ricans, dominicans? sure. puerto ricans, dominicans, cubans. they love locking up us brown guys. this is not about skin. it's... it's about... it's about territory! that's right! our territory! none of us would be here if any of us believed we had any place else to be. what did you do to get yourself locked up, primo? he beat the snot outta someone exactly like you! it don't matter what i did. i'm different now. and... you don't gotta worry about me being with maría. so, you told god and jesús when you get out, you gonna become somebody new? am i right, pendejito? and then you came to that dance and you see my sister, and you think... "how about i get myself a brown girl?" "i never spent time with a little puertorriqueña before." tony! "if i can be with a coloured girl like her, "i'll be somebody better than i was. "somebody i never been before." - put your hands up! - come on! hit him! come on! he won't fight you, fight someone who will. i love her, bernardo. stay out of this! finish it! tony! what the hell are you doing? tony. come on. fight me! riff... - ok. that's enough. - tony! tony! tony! let go! let go! its ok. its ok. take it out. tony, come on! come on! come on. tony, come on! tony, come on. housing department. we're gonna get apartments in the new buildings. right where we live now. ay, nena, we're gonna get evicted. the new apartments, the metropolitan opera, the orchestra hall? not for us, for the gringos. that's why i cashed my relocation check inmediatamente. - before they take it back. - mm-hmm. you cashed the check? i tore mine up. - uh-huh. - you tore up a $500 check? once you cash the check, mi'jita, they can evict you! i mailed mine right back to the public works. a ver, bernardo ain't keeping their dirty money, verdad, maría? maría? get down from there! we have eight floors to clean! maría! oh, i am terribly sorry, señora fausta, but i do not clean floors. no, no, no. i wear my $17.98 silk shawl... ha-ha. now get down. she's dreaming about her boyfriend. oh, chino. chino, sí. she's in love with chino. i'm happy in my fancy, rich lady apartment. i feel pretty oh, so pretty i feel pretty and witty and bright and i pity any girl who isn't me tonight i feel charming oh, so charming it's alarming how charming i feel and so pretty that i hardly can believe i'm real see that pretty girl in that mirror there? who can that attractive girl be? such a pretty face such a pretty dress such a pretty smile such a pretty me i feel stunning and entrancing feel like running and dancing for joy for i'm loved by a pretty wonderful boy have you met my good friend maría? the craziest girl on the block you'll know her the minute you see her she's the one who is in an advanced state of shock she thinks she's in love she thinks she's in spain ay, she isn't in love she's merely insane it must be the heat or some rare disease or too much to eat or maybe it's fleas keep away from her send for chino this is not the maría we know - modest and pure - polite and refined well-bred and mature and out of her mind miss america! a speech, a speech, por favor! i feel pretty oh so pretty that the city should give me its key a committee should be organized to honour me i feel dizzy i feel sunny i feel fizzy and funny and fine and so pretty miss america can just resign la, la, la, la la, la, la, la, la, la see that pretty girl in that mirror there? what mirror where? who can that attractive girl be? - which? - what? - where? - who? such a pretty face such a pretty dress such a pretty smile such a pretty me such a pretty me - i feel stunning - i feel stunning - and entrancing - and entrancing feel like running and dancing for joy for i'm loved by a pretty wonderful boy get back to work! i didn't punch my time card. ¿hola? chino? maría. que pasó? chino, que pasó? there was a fight con los jets. like it was over before anyone could stop him. and riff, he got stabbed, and... tony. chino! tony killed bernardo. chino! liar! what's going on down there? i... i didn't mean for it to... you promised you would stop this. you promised you would stop this! i tried. i tried. and then you murdered him! no, no, you murdered me! you're a killer! the killer! killer, killer, killer, killer, killer... i'm going to the cops. i just had to see you first. if you let them take you from me, how do i forgive you for that? go! come on! come on, we gotta get outta here. there's a place for us somewhere a place for us peace and quiet and open air wait for us somewhere there's a time for us someday a time for us time together with time to spare time to learn time to care someday somewhere we'll find a new way of living we'll find a way of forgiving somewhere there's a place for us a time and place for us hold my hand and we're halfway there hold my hand and i'll take you there somehow someday somewhere i should go. where? ay, no. go to doc's. valentina will know what to do. tony! promise me you will. maría. come with me now. i can't. i can't. maría. sí, i'm almost... i'll come out in a... go. go. i love him. a boy like that who'd kill your brother forget that boy and find another one of your own kind stick to your own kind a boy like that will give you sorrow you'll meet another boy tomorrow one of your own kind stick to your own kind a boy who kills cannot love a boy who kills has no heart and he's the boy who gets your love and gets your heart very smart, maría very smart a boy like that wants one thing only and when he's done he'll leave you lonely he'll murder your love he murdered mine just wait and see just wait, maría just wait and see oh, no, anita, no anita, no it isn't true not for me it's true for you not for me i hear your words and in my head i know they're smart but my heart, anita but my heart knows they're wrong a boy like that who'd kill your brother and my heart is too strong forget that boy and find another - for i belong - one of your own kind stick to your own kind to him alone, to him alone one thing i know - a boy who kills cannot love - i am his - i don't care what he is - a boy who kills has no heart i don't know why it's so and he's the boy who gets your love - i don't want to know - and gets your heart very smart, maría very smart oh, no, anita, no you should know better you were in love or so you said you should know better i have a love and it's all that i have right or wrong what else can i do? i love him i'm his and everything he is i am, too i have a love and it's all that i need right or wrong and he needs me, too i love him we're one there's nothing to be done not a thing i can do but hold him hold him forever be with him now tomorrow and all of my life when love comes so strong there is no right or wrong your love is your life he will never be safe here. sí, lo sé. and no one will ever forgive him. will you? you can't ever ask me that. will you forgive me? te quiero, mi niña, but he will have to go away. and you will have to go with him. it got so bad so fast. he was a hero. i know people say that about a lot of people... bernardo was a fool. what did he die for? murió luchando por su dignidad... and for pride, mi hermano, orgullo puertorriqueño! bernardo, he died to show those gringos how tough puerto ricans are. and if they push us too far... if those nobodies can take your pride away from you, tú eres más estúpido que bernardo. it's a big world. bernardo let the gringos tell him there's only this barrio, these 20 bad blocks. don't you do what bernardo did. you kill a gringo, they kill you. sooner or later, the gringos kill everything. chino, chino, chino, por favor. don't follow me. bernardo was your husband? yes. oh. close enough. your brother was angry you danced with a white boy at the mixer last night. no. i don't think so. you don't think the boy you danced with was white? or you don't think bernardo was angry? i wouldn't dance with a white boy. yeah? i heard you came with a date. some, uh, puerto rican boy. goes by the street name "chino." word is, chino's got a gun. that's what the word is, anyway. he's armed... ...and hunting for this white stranger who she danced with, who we think killed your boyfriend! anything else you wanna add? bernardo told me about you. i'm flattered. the way you talked to him. chino is gentle. he doesn't have a gun. apparently, now he does. i have a, uh... a headache? she has her monthly, you know? i get the picture. i need for this, uh, medicine. anita, she can... she can go for me? mamita... in english. sí. sí. english is hard to, uh... yeah, i bet it is. she wants you to go to doc's drugstore and ask valentina for... hot tea is how my wife handles it. what did i say? tell valentina, i hope her cousin arrived safe from santurce. and i'm sorry i can't be there to meet him like i promised. and all of a sudden, fluency. that means "i'll come as soon as i can." i can go? you're not his widow or anything. i'm done with you. must be tough, losing a brother. so, let's start from the beginning. i wanna go see him. talk to him. tony just wants to be alone right now, he don't wanna see us. he ain't alone. the old lady's down there with him. does he know we're up here? me and grazie? does he know i'm here? tony cared about me once. he don't wanna see you, grazie. go home. we left him lying there. in the salt shed. ice... i know. that's bothering me. bothers me, too, deez. he ain't there anymore. jesus christ. where'd you come from? down the chimney like santy claus. what's tony gonna do? go pop yourself, ya blister. how long's he figure on holing up down there? till the heat dies down. when's that gonna happen? two guys died, so... never ever, bernardo's friend, chino? he has riff's gun. oh, jesus. and he's hunting for tony. what are we gonna do? i don't know. where you going? to keep track of chino. yeah, yeah. good. you do that. in and out of shadows. that's how. hey. you done good, buddy boy. leave. i want to see your friend, tony. he's here? he's supposed to be. i have a message for him. where is valentina? you're bernardo's girl. we saw you at the gym. yeah, you wanna dance, chiquita banana? dancing up a storm, you was, dipping them hips. valentina! spanish? you come here speaking spanish? i wasn't talking to you. no spanish. not with us. not today. let me pass. you heard her, boys. she wants to pass. hmm, she's too dark to pass. let her go. no one wants you here. why don't you dance for us first? dance with me, darling, like you danced at the gym. numbers, stop it. stop it. cutting in. balkan, out of here. come on, you pig, let's see you move! no, no, no. bernardo's black pig. hey! stop touching her! boys, don't do this! - no! - tiger, let her go! let her go! ice, enough! enough! help me! no! don't hurt her! open the door! keep moving! don't hurt her! don't hurt her, please! oh, my god! oh, my god! what the hell are you doing? you disgusting pieces of shit! - mija, mija. - no! traitor! go back where you came from. you think i want to stay here? in this city full of ugly, little animals like you? no, gracias. tell tony... you tell that murderer... maría ain't coming. chino, he found out about them... tony and maría. he shot her. maría is dead. you tell him that. i know you. i know all of your names. since you was born. i watched you grow up. and you have grown into rapists. you dishonour yourselves. you dishonour your dead. what do we do now? we're done. what was that? what was that? you can never hear nothing from down here. - was it the cops? - no, no, no. it was not police. no, it was... it was... uh... now it's alright. tony, let's sit down for a second, huh? listen. i got something to ask you. no, no, wait. i... i... i got something... it ain't easy to ask this, so let me just go, ok? wait, wait. i have something to... you've given me so much already, but when she gets here, just... if you could help us out with the bus fare... - tony... - i... i have no idea what it's gonna cost to get far enough away, out west some place. 100 bucks for both of us. and we'll get work when we get there. we'll pay you back every cent. i know you ain't got money, so if it's too much to ask... no, no, no. it's not too much. it's not too much. we're gonna name all our girls valentina. - hmm. - cause if you hadn't cared for me like you always done, i wouldn't even be here alive, which... maybe i shouldn't be. don't ever say that, tony. life matters even more than love. mm. they're the same thing. before maría, maybe i would've said they ain't. but now, it's all life is. even if it lasts no time at all. a month, a day even. that was anita upstairs. what's wrong? chino... what? chino has a gun. he... chino shot maría. he killed her. she's... she's dead. chino! chino! where are you? chino! i'm right here! chino! chino! come on, man! i'm right here! i'm locking for you! come on! come on, with me! i know how to hide you. i got places to go they'll never look, just please! don't leave me here! get off of me! chino, kill me! kill me, too, chino! chino! no! don't! mi amor mio, mi corazon. maría. maría. only you you're the only thing i'll see forever in my eyes, in my words and in everything i do nothing else but you ever give it to me. how do you fire it? just pull this? how many bullets are left? enough for you? and you? all of you! i can kill now because i hate now. i hate now. how many can i kill, chino? and still have one bullet left for me! te adoro, anton. no, don't touch him! provided by explosiveskull https://twitter.com/kaboomskull