"(woman)" ? "sayonara" ? "sayonara" ? "sayonara" ? "sayonara" ? "japanese goodbye" just like a bird: how many did you get, sir? - hey, he got two more: - old gruver got two more: nice going there, sir. mm-hm. let’s try the other lung. breathe. - breathe. - hi, padre. - two more migs today, i hear, lloyd. - yeah. that’s it. you can put it on. - well, ace, you’ve had it. - say what? you’re through flying for a while, anyway. oh, no. nothing wrong with me a little bottle of beer isn’t gonna fix up. give him a bottle of beer and send him back up. - don’t get yourself excited here. - don’t get pale. i was just giving you a rib. but you could use some sleep. yeah, i could use a little nice korean sleep. better than that. you’re going to japan. - i’m going to japan? what for? - why not? wouldn’t you like to tangle with one of those beautiful japanese dolls? if it’s your prescription, doc, i’ll certainly work at it best i can. you’re going to kobe. kelly has your orders. what in the world am i gonna do in kobe? it’s a special request of general webster himself. well, then, this has all been prearranged? prearranged? demanded. why shouldn’t a three-star general look out for a four-star general’s son? don’t get on my back. i ain’t buckin’ for favours. i know you haven’t. i was just kidding. - see you, doc. thanks. - can i have a word, gruver? yeah. i’ll bet you i know what the word is. k-e-l-l-y. is that true or false? he’s got permission to go back and marry that japanese girl. i told him - he can’t take her back to the states. i explained the law in detail myself. but there’s no law which says he can’t marry her, and he’s appealed to his congressman. - his congressman? - i wish you’d talk to him. after all, he is one of your men, and you’re the only human being he looks up to. listen, i’m gonna tell you something. that boy don’t look up to anybody. he has been promoted four times and busted right back again. yeah, my congressman. shocking, ain’t it, major? chaplain says don’t marry the girl. colonel says don’t marry the girl. you say don’t marry the girl. congressman says “you marry that girl, kelly.” what can i do? i’ll tell you what you can do, boy. you can go and marry your congressman. you’d be better off. give me coffee. yes, sir. i hear you bagged two more today, major. - how was it up there? - splendid. what’s the matter? what happened? there was a guy with a face in one of those planes today. there was a guy with a face in all the other seven you shot down. yeah. that’s exactly what i’ve been thinking about. well, you can stop thinking. you got a very well-written contract here. general webster’s had you assigned to the inter-service aviation board, which means you got practically nothing to do. except, of course, marry the general’s daughter who arrives in kobe tomorrow. - you mean eileen...? - that’s right. - general’s wife and daughter both. - don’t fool me now. i’m not fooling. you’re not supposed to know anything about it. big surprise. eileen’s coming to kobe. yeah. general webster arranges it for you to marry his daughter, my congressman arranges it for me to marry my girl. generals for the officers, congressmen for the peasants. listen, i’m glad you brought that up, boy. i think there’s a little bit of difference that we oughta talk about. - what do you mean? - well, now listen. i never did show you a picture of my girl, did i, kelly? no. well, i’m gonna show you a picture of a girl. it happens to be my girl, but she’s american. and i want you to take a long, long look at her, because i believe that maybe you forgot what an american girl looks like. and this girl i’m gonna show to you is first of all an american girl, a girl with fine character, a girl with good background, good education, good family, good blood. i’ve known this girl since i was about that high. families are very close. i’ve been engaged to this girl for a long time, kelly. now, she’s a girl of unusual character. i’d like you to take a look at her, a close look, and tell me what you think and what your feeling is. - kind of beat up, ain’t she? - i beg your pardon? no. the beat-up one’s her mother, you idiot. here’s eileen. - now, now... - hey. "(kelly)" she sure does something wicked to a bathing suit. she has an enormous capacity to fulfil a bathing suit. that’s enough. i’m just showing it to you. but all kidding aside, the reason i wanna show you this girl... you ever seen katsumi? - where’s that? - it’s not a “where’s that?” - it’s the girl i’m marrying. - oh. well, no. i don’t know japanese names. that’s all right. forget it. - well? - yeah. looks like a bright girl. - she’s a whole lot brighter than me. - that ain’t too hard to do, you know. listen, kelly, i wanna say something seriously to you. aren’t you taking a risk in marrying this japanese girl? risks don’t scare me any. the army and the air force and the state department have ganged up to keep me from getting married. hold on. what do you mean, ganged up? here, look at these pamphlets. ”think it over, americans.” ”things you are required to know and do before marrying orientals.” here’s another piece of garbage. ”but will your family accept her?” - will they, kelly? - i ain’t got any family. i haven’t got anything against this girl of yours. i haven’t got anything against the japanese any more. not really. but, you know, when... i just don’t understand how a normal, average american... let’s put it this way. i think even your friends are gonna put you down if you marry this girl. if the friends i got are that kind, they won’t be friends of mine much longer. major, i’m gonna marry my girl if i have to give up my american citizenship to do it. kelly, you stupid, ignorant slob. go ahead and marry this slant-eyed runt if you want to. it’ll serve you right. wait a minute, major. don’t talk to me that way: i won’t take that from you or anybody else. {y:i}(piane fiies overhead) i’m sorry, kelly. i’m sorry. i’m just blowing my stack a little today. but, boy, i mean it. i... i wanna tell you, when you tell me that you’re gonna give up your citizenship for a girl, any girl, i think you’re nuts. - i think you’re crazy. - i am crazy. i’m in love crazy. i think you’re gonna cut your throat and i’d just hate to see you do it. and i mean that with all sincerity. maybe that’s because you don’t feel as strong about your girl as i do mine. there’s your orders, major. see you on the plane. ok. kelly. we’re coming in, major. there’s the inland sea. beautiful, ain’t it? sure is nice scenery out there. that’s kobe over there. see it, with all the docks? what you’re looking at, major, really is three cities all run together. there’s kobe, osaka and kyoto. - they got kabuki there. - what’s kabuki? never heard of kabuki theatre? all men, no dames. - that’s gonna be dull, ain’t it? - i don’t know. if it’s all dames you want, i think we’re gonna get there in about... yep. look down there. see that little park over there with the lakes around it? that’s matsubayashi. - where? - right down in there. see it? the matsubayashi girls are the most famous in japan. they sing, they dance, they act all the parts. no men. katsumi knows all the actresses. she’s a movie fan. you’re just blowin’ your top about seeing katsumi, aren’t you? carryin’ on... she’s my girl, major. - well, gg, good to see you. - so long, lloyd. - lots of luck to you. - thank you. bye-bye. lloyd: lloyd: here we are. lloyd: - hey, there: - don’t forget to act surprised. yeah, hi there: hot dog: won’t he be surprised: - major? - yeah? how about being my best man? listen, kelly, i told you that i’m against this marriage. it would mean a lot to me. what do you say, major? ok. consul’s office. 10 o’clock, saturday. well, come on, honey. hurry up. well, now. come here, you: hi: certainly good to see you. hi, sir. nice to see you. i said “there’s general webster but who is that good-looking woman?” - tell me about eileen. how is she? - she finds tulsa terribly dull without you. well, i wish she could have come along. lloyd, you couldn’t expect us to bring her out here. you’re registered at the hotel for the first few nights but stationed here after that. - i see. - let’s go. you get in first. - you go ahead, mrs webster. - no, you get in first. - go on, get in. - no, ladies first. hi, lloyd. you devil. come here. i’m glad to see you, darling. i forgot what an ugly girl you got here. she’s not ugly. she’s a beautiful girl. she’s the ugliest girl i ever saw. and that dress is terrible. it just goes in and out. that’s awful. it’s meant to go in and out. i go in and out. well, we’ll talk about that later. send major gruver’s luggage up to his room, will you? that’s beautiful, isn’t it? - are there any rules against it? - no, but it’s understood... i thought the club would be honoured. please, mike, let’s go. - what’s she doing here? - mother: - isn’t she with that young officer? - kobe’s a recreation centre. - that’s right. - it degrades the uniform. - it’s out-and-out fraternisation. - she’s beautiful. all the more reason. mark? colonel crawford. - let’s get outta this clip joint. - just a minute, captain bailey. - what’s the trouble? - i didn’t mean to bother you with this. captain bailey here is wanting to take her into the club. general webster, sir, this young lady is one of japan’s most famous dancers. she’s no ordinary... yes, i understand. even so, don’t you realise this club is only for american personnel? now, we’ve been pretty easy about fraternisation in this area, even though there are strict orders against it. but when an officer who should be an example... am i to understand, sir, that you personally refuse to allow me to take this young lady into the club? i understand how you feel, captain, and i’m very embarrassed, but i’m sorry. - thank you. - thank you, "sir." don’t you know there’s such a thing as insolence through manner? thank you, "sir." come on in, boys. eileen has to change. - eileen’s taking you to the kabuki tonight. - good. we met mr nakamura, the head actor, and he invited her to come. isn’t that where there’s no dames and the men play all the women’s parts? that’s right, the way they do at princeton. come on, mark. it’s gonna be fun. come on, baby. {y:i}(japanese music and singing) did you bring your lunch? {y:i}(speak in japanese) ”miss eileen webster.” ah: {y:i}(speaks japanese) {y:i}(speaks japanese) {y:i}(shouts in japanese) - who’s fightin’ her? - that’s nakamura. - he’s the one i met. he’s very famous. - is that nakamura? it’s about a lady who turns into a lion. she gonna turn into a lion right here? i wanna see that. i love you, lloyd. i love you terribly. i always have and i guess i always will. i love you, honey. awful glad you’re here, too. everybody acting like nobody ever kissed in the world. she wouldn’t be half so ugly if she didn’t stick her face in that flour barrel. she? well, whatever. he had me. he’s a male actress. it says here they’ve been trained since childhood to have the grace of a woman and yet the power of a man. oh, my word. my lord: that’s my father: is he man enough now for you, lloyd? is that the same fellow? uh-huh. it’s all right. i am sure it must be very difficult to enjoy theatre so different from your own. - we found it fascinating. - i am glad. kabuki’s very old, isn’t it? some 300 years. i find myself becoming intrigued by everything in japan. i should be happy to help you know my country better, if at any time i can. you did not enjoy the evening so much, i fear, major gruver. oh, yeah. i thought it was a fine play. i thought maybe you could use a marilyn monroe here and there, you know, to... unfortunately, miss monroes were barred from kabuki in the 1 7th century. i didn’t mean to sound corny. i just didn’t know what to say about it. please, do not apologise. i am great admirer of miss monroe myself. that’s two of us. that’s you and me, boy. no, don’t do it to me. it’s real good. thank you very much. why not? - let’s go and see the garden. - ok, you go on. i’ll take this. that’s fine, fine cooking. very good. here you are, honey. - no, thank you. - don’t care for any? - sit down, darling. - you look awful pretty. i’ve been doing a lot of thinking with you away, lloyd. - answer me one thing. - what’s that, honey? why aren’t we married now? - isn’t that a silly question? - no, not really. you do a lot of wondering in tulsa. well, i suppose the korean war might have a little something to do with it. wasn’t korea maybe convenient, lloyd? convenient? what i really mean is... do i mean everything to you as you do to me? course you do, honey. i went to visit your mother before i came here, there in richmond. my mother? i was appalled at the loneliness in which she lives, and the way your father’s content to go off and leave her walled up in a circle of friends while he plunges off to the war. hold on a second. you’ve got to remember my father’s a general, honey. besides, my mother wants to live that way. - don’t be ridiculous. - don’t tell me that. no woman wants to live any way except body and soul with the man she loves. you’ll never tuck me away in some little town. become the greatest general in air-force history, but love me too. but do i love you, baby. i do. well, i guess all i’m trying to say is that - and i really mean this, lloyd - if what you want is a family like our fathers have and promotion in the air force and position in society like our mothers have, and you marry me because i’m pretty and smart and have guts and know the ropes... then i don’t think you want to marry me, lloyd. i’m sorry. i guess i’ve been thinking too much. yeah, i think you have been thinking too much. now... now quit it. ok. i don’t know. maybe things’ll turn out after all. what do you mean, maybe? sure, it’s gonna turn out. it’s just all that nonsense you talk about every time we get together. nonsense? i hadn’t realised it was nonsense. course it is, honey. it’s all very simple. now, look here. i want a wife and a family. i want a home in america. and every time i think of a home like that, i think about it with a woman like you. a girl with a good army background like my own... what do you mean, a girl like me? i’m not a type. i’m me. lloyd, it’s me you’ve got to love. haven’t you ever felt like grabbing me and hauling me off to a shack somewhere? you know better than that. of course i have. - then what’s holding you back? - eileen, are you ever gonna grow up? there’s a right time and a wrong time to do things. you have responsibilities to other people. you have a position to fulfil. - you’re not alone in this world. - you defend yourself like a fort. no matter how i defend myself, you gotta understand i am not in a position to be hauling my fiancée away to a shack somewhere like an alley cat. i wasn’t brought up that way. you’re going to do everything expected of you? i’m certainly gonna try. i don’t expect you to marry me just because it’s expected of you. sometimes i look at you and i don’t understand you. i think sometimes i don’t even know who you are or what you’re all about. maybe you don’t. maybe you never will. - ..so long as you both shall live? - i will. katsumi, wilt though have this man to thy wedded husband, to live together after god’s ordinance in the holy state of matrimony, love him, comfort him, honour and keep him, in sickness and in health, and forsaking all others keep thee only unto him, so long as you both shall live? - she will. - she will. if any man can show just cause why they may not be lawfully joined together, let him now speak or else hereafter for ever hold his peace. do you realise you waive all your legal rights? i signed all the papers, didn’t i? you’ll have to look after your wife on your own. the air force is not responsible. yeah, i know. romantic, ain’t it, major? will you finish this ugly deed and get it over? i pronounce you man and wife. sign over there. just a minute. that’s it, mrs kelly. just you and me now. where do we sign? may as well witness this now, major. yeah, all right. it was a great honour meeting you, major gruver. thank you. tell me, consul, are all these ceremonies conducted like this? well, we do our best to prevent as many as possible. we make the paperwork so difficult that a good many of them lose steam. about how many gis have gone through this ceremony? about... 10,000. 10,000? well, then, you let a few slip by you, didn’t you? a few, yes. how’s your girl, major? eileen? i haven’t seen her in a couple of days. i’ve been moving in, getting my things arranged. she’s been hightailing it with the brass, socialising. major, ain’t you gonna kiss the bride? sure, i’m gonna kiss the bride. yeah. sure. listen, i want you to take good care of this boy, you hear? here’s your ticket, honey. don’t forget it. ok, boy. thanks, major. took a lot of guts for you to come here today. quit. if you ever need a job done that you west point guys ain’t allowed to do yourselves, i’m your man. - i’m gonna call on you. - come on, let’s get a belt. - how are you, lloyd? - fine, just fine. - that’s a pretty dress you got on. - thanks. lloyd, sit down, son. all righty. - thank you for coming over so promptly. - that’s all right. i was just darning socks. lloyd... i don’t exactly know how to put this. it’s a little embarrassing. for me, that is. you were a witness at a marriage yesterday between... one of your men and a japanese girl. yeah, one of the men from my outfit in korea. you realise, of course, there’s an army policy to discourage all such marriages. i think they couldn’t have been discouraged. they’re very much in love. i dare say. however, you personally seemed to sanction the marriage... no, i didn’t mean to give that impression at all. i didn’t sanction it. i tried to talk him out of it before. but, lloyd, darling, you did act as his witness. well, as long as it was gonna be inevitable, i thought i might as well try to make it pleasant. don’t you see the position that puts me in? since i’m the area commander here... you didn’t do anything to encourage this marriage, sir. i did all this on my own. what do you mean? on your own, lloyd, dear? everything you do reflects on the general. after all, he is eileen’s father. this places me in a position of incompetence when it comes to doing anything to help my own men. let’s stop beating around the bush. what’s wrong between you and eileen? you haven’t been to see her for several days. well... you talked about being embarrassed, sir, before. i’m embarrassed too. - what about? - about my whole situation here. i’m a pilot, sir. i was doing a job in korea. an unfinished job. i’m pulled off that job and sent here and plonked down at a desk at this inter-service whatever it is. as far as i can see, there’s absolutely nothing to do. all so’s i can be with eileen. there’s nothing dishonest about it. that is, if you plan to get married. - i think i know how lloyd feels. - do you plan to get married or not? - really, dear. - i’m her mother. i want to know. well, mrs webster, as of the moment, eileen isn’t too sure about it and i... we know, lloyd, dear. there’s evidently been some slight strain between you two, but don’t let it become too important. this is sunday night. why don’t you call her up later and ask her out to dinner? well... mother, i found the dearest little shop... - hi, lloyd. - hello, eileen. lloyd just came in to see you. oh? listen... i thought... it’s sunday night and i thought maybe you and i can go out and catch a movie or something, if you feel like it. i’m sorry, lloyd. i’m having dinner with some friends tonight. well, what about tomorrow? that’s booked too, i’m afraid. well, it looks as though i’m holding pretty tough cards. what about next week? of course, lloyd. call me. ok. mrs webster, general. - goodbye, lloyd. - goodbye, eileen. goodbye, lloyd. eileen, why did you tell him you were busy tonight? because i don’t want to see lloyd gruver when you ask him to see me. besides, i do have a date with that young lieutenant and his wife from fort bragg. a whole bunch of us. i hope you don’t lose my man for me. give me a martini, will you? no, make it a lemonade. no, give me a scotch and soda. - scotch and soda. - scotch and soda, sir. there’s such a thing as insolence through manner, you know. i hate to admit it, but i guess that’s what i said. i thought it sounded kinda strange coming from a guy who shot down nine migs. that’s a kind of reflex action. i’m a west point man, you know. i guess it sneaks out sometimes. so listen, captain, what does a fella do round here after the sun goes down? why? you on the loose? halfway. bring him another. what part of the south are you from? almost any old place that’s got an army post on it. i was all set to take the exams for west point and there was a teacher there who made me take a part in the school play. they were doing one of those hungarian things by molnár. you never did hear a hungarian play played in a southern accent, did you? - no, i’m afraid i missed that. - that’s a shame. i was awful good in it. anyhow, i suddenly didn’t wanna go to west point and didn’t wanna have anything to do with it. my mother come up to school and... she said “we expected you to go to the point like your father and his father.” and i told her, i said i had an idea about a whole different way of life. what’d she say to that? she said something like... if i ever once had that idea, i shouldn’t let anything stop me. and she couldn’t come right out and say “don’t go to the point”, but i knew what she meant. then my father flew up from texas and... he put you straight, huh? he just looked at me and said “if you don’t wanna go to the point, don’t go.” ”the unhappiest men i know are those who... were forced into something they got no inaptitude for.” how did he force you to go to the point? that’s what i’m telling you. he didn’t force me. we just had a little talk and he flew back to texas and i went on to the point. i see. well, i’ll tell you something though, mike, i never once had any regrets about going to the point. except, just lately, i’ve had some old feeling come back on me. i don’t know if i wanna go on in the air force and buck for a star, get married into the webster family and get swallowed up by all that. i think maybe my old lady was right. well, what does it all mean? the eternal struggle, sex, new york yankees. all right. quit now. come on. - ain’t that a nice-looking bridge? - "(mike)" that’s the bitchi-bashi. - say what? - the bitchi-bashi. "bashï"s japanese for bridge. we call this particular one the bitchi-bashi because there’s so much lovely stuff that goes over it. did you say stuff? brother, i said stuff. would you care to tell me what we’re standing in the bushes for? - can’t touch it. - why not? these girls that go over there are the matsubayashi girls. they just cross over there on the way to the theatre from those dormitories. "(gruver)" that’s right. somebody told me about them. "(? singing)" hey, boy, is there anything going over there now? "(baiiey)" hey, come on. the goods are on display. wait for me, buddy. there’s fumiko-san, the one you saw me with. - yeah, little one in pink. - yeah, that’s the one. are you goin’ over to say hello? in public? a matsubayashi girl? are you nuts? - you’d take her to the officers’ club. - that’s for americans. thought i could sneak her in without her being recognised. - "(gruver)" what happens if they catch her? - "(baiiey)" immediate dismissal. - "(gruver)" no fooling? - "(bailey)" yeah. no matsubayashi girl is allowed to have dates of any kind. you were dating her. well, i’m different. get outta here. like i told president truman “you was wrong when you sold the marines short.” see, i hate to be stuffy about this, but you air-force men wouldn’t understand. the marines have got "i’amour," and these girls, they got fame, wealth, bright lights. - but they ain’t got "i’amour." - you got "i’amour." {y:i}(excited shouting) - what’s going on now? - hana-ogi’s coming. - who? - hana-ogi. she’s the top. number one. come on, let’s go. how come she’s dressed like that? tall ones play men’s parts mostly. - they play women’s parts too. - how do you do? what do you say let’s see the show? well, come on, ace. "(? band plays)" {y:i}(women singing in japanese) {y:i}(applause) {y:i}(dramatic music ) {y:i}(upbeat, jaunty music ) {y:i}(women singing) {y:i}(waltz music ) - do you follow the plot? - yeah, nothing wrong with the plot. {y:i}(applause) {y:i}(traditional japanese music ) {y:i}(speaks japanese) {y:i}(applause) {y:i}(lively show music ) {y:i}(wolf whistle) {y:i}(women singing) are you sure they come back this way? just keep yourself in check, son. am i nuts or is she the greatest thing i ever saw? whatever you’re thinking, forget it. you ain’t going anyplace. yeah? how’s this for introduction? she comes along and i just kinda walk on by and slip my arm around her. - what do you think of that? - i think we’d better go. - major. - hey, kelly, how are you? - how’s everything? - saw you at the show. i want you to meet captain bailey. this is airman kelly. - nice to meet you. - how do you do, sir? - how you been, boy? - fine. - here’s katsumi. - hello there, katsumi. - say something, kid. - it is fine to see you among us tonight. she’s speaking better english than you are, boy. she’s been taking english lessons and i’ve been studying a little japanese. let’s hear you go. {y:i}- (speaks japanese) {y:i}- (katsumi giggles) i hope he can get rid of it, don’t you? it means “my feet are cold”. she always laughs when i say that. how you been? how you gettin’ along down there? just fine, major. we got a wonderful house down by the canal. didn’t you tell me katsumi knows those matsubayashi girls? sure, she’s a real fan. i want you to do something for me. i am trying in the worst way to meet this hana-ogi. and i want you to ask her if she won’t, you know, kinda introduce me. {y:i}(speaks japanese) {y:i}(speaks japanese) she says the rules are very strict but she’ll ask her. - she will ask her? - "(kelly)" oh, yeah. cos i said to truman when he came over to the house, ”harry, don’t ever sell the air force short.” {y:i}(speaks japanese) all right, boy. now you gonna see something. here comes fumiko-san. - here comes hana-ogi. - i know it. - you ain’t gonna let me down? go on. - it’s all right, major. {y:i}(speaks japanese) how d’you do, miss ogi? you think you made the grade, ace? she gave me a nice little look there. she sure did. {y:i}(speaks japanese) she says that hana-ogi will not speak to an american. why not? we shot her brother and killed her father with our bombs. i didn’t do it. sure you did, ace. we all did. come on. come on, ace. {y:i}(speak japanese) if they’re so strict with you, how come you go out with mike and fool around? it is very bad of me. but i cannot help myself. he’s so tall. he’s a big boy, all right. there’s no fooling about that. but, listen, what i really wanna know is does this hana-ogi ever go out on dates, like you and mike? no. she’s number one girl. must be special careful. well, i want you to do me a favour. will you do it? when you go back to the dormitory tonight, i want you to tell hana-ogi that major gruver would like to meet her and... wait. now, wait. i just wanna talk to her for a little while. - will you do that for me? - never happen. hana-ogi-san never speak men. and with american never happen. well, honey, i am here to tell you that it’s going to happen. {y:i}(women singing in japanese) pardon me, miss ogi. i wonder if i could have your autograph? thank you very much. how d’you do, miss ogi? {y:i}(practises phrase in japanese) {y:i}(speaks japanese) hi, major. i’ve been looking for you. hello, mr kelly. the wife says to be at the house tonight. no, i tell you, boy, i have an engagement this evening with a friend of mine. be there, bub. hana-ogi’s coming. sir. - kelly... - be there early. kelly. - hello. - "(all)" hello: you know where joe kelly lives? over there? you show me, will you? how do? {y:i}(speaks japanese) - hi, ace. - kelly, is that you? - how are you? - how are you, ace? - nice to see you. come in the house. - let me just take a check here. - did she come yet? - no. {y:i}(katsumi hums) katsumi. {y:i}(speaks japanese) {y:i}(speaks japanese) - ok. what she say? - don’t ask me. off with the shoes. you don’t wear shoes in a japanese house. coming off. what about the pants? - the room on your right. - here? that’s it. watch your head, ace. this is it. this is all right, boy. this is cute. this is nice. sit down over here, ace. that’s the place of honour in a japanese house. what’s this thing? - this is an armrest. - armrest? be even better when the rest of the chair gets here. hi, katsumi, darling. how are you? {y:i}- (speaks japanese) - yeah. it is very nice to have you... among us. it’s very nice to be among you too. i brought a couple of things you can stick round the house. - yeah. flowers. {y:i}- (speaks japanese) you’ve made her very happy, ace. are we gonna eat this or wear it? this is a little towel that they serve before a meal or a drink. - a little refresher for your hands and face. - that’s a good idea. wash ‘em off. ok, clean everywhere. do i pass, teacher? just dump it in the basket. yes, sir. {y:i}(speaks japanese) what’s this, an eye cup? we got to wash our eyes out too? no, that’s a cup for sake. that’s a wine made out of rice. - rice? no fooling. - no fooling. - i’ll try it. - taste it. you’ll see. - feels warm. - we heat it up before we serve it. katsumi, here’s to your house. and, kelly, very best to you. {y:i}(speaks japanese) - that’s all right, boy. not bad. - i told you. it’s wonderful. - you not gonna have anything? - i was just gonna say. there’s kind of a polite thing you do. you take the cup, you swish it around in the water and pour some sake for her. - ok. - that’s right. {y:i}(speaks japanese) - it means “a little bit”. - all righty. hold on now. wait. ok. see? didn’t hurt. she’s gonna get me under the table in five minutes. she’ll keep pouring all night. katsumi, i pour for gruver-san now. you excuse me? i finish cooking. you go ahead, darling. go right ahead. go right ahead. {y:i}(speaks japanese) a present. whisky. whisky? {y:i}(speaks japanese) listen, boy, she’s just as cute as a bug. you ain’t gonna lose with her. see what i mean, ace? i’m the happiest guy in the world. - you wanna see the rest of the house? - yeah. i’ll show you round. this is the garden. katsumi, i’m showing him around the house. {y:i}(speaks japanese) the bathroom is back there. we got extra rooms here. would you like to see ‘em? yeah. what you got here, boy? oh, lord: we haven’t done anything with these yet but maybe someday, if we expand. it’s really working out for you, isn’t it? everything’s perfect, except for that rat of a colonel i’m assigned to. you wouldn’t be talking about crawford? that’s the guy. he rides every guy that’s married to a japanese girl. extra duty, everything. he’s a rough cob, no getting around that. so what do i care? i come home to my girl and i forget it. let’s go. wait. i forgot to ask you. does this hana-ogi speak any english? those girls sing in a lot of languages. i guess she’ll be able to catch your drift, ace. you nasty boy, you. wait a minute. i just got to take a look at my grass now. are we gonna be, all four of us gonna be together all evening long? take it easy, ace. you’re gonna blow a fuse. well... might be. - your lumber’s wrong. - watch your head, ace. katsumi, you ready? in here? you gonna have to change... kelly. hana-ogi-san. this is a great day for our house. major gruver-san. {y:i}(speaks japanese) how do you do, miss ogi? - where you going? - i gotta help katsumi with the... it looks as though everybody’s ran off and left us alone here. certainly was nice of you to come over here this evening, miss ogi. i was just tickled to death when they told me you were coming over. i’ll just sit down here. well, miss ogi. let me fix you a little drink. no, not... well, ok. here’s to you. it’s good. don’t tell me. i know you’ve got to slosh this around in here a little bit and get the dribble off and give it right back to you. now you take that. all right. i was surprised to find that they make that stuff out of rice. we have rice back home in america. we just make rice pudding out of it. we don’t drink it. this is the first liquid rice i’ve ran into. you know, did... did anyone ever tell you, miss ogi, that you’re a fine-looking woman? i mean, really fine. you’re even better looking offstage than you are on. that’s the truth. you get up there and sing, dance, act, everything. you’re all-round great. i wonder where kelly and katsumi... i’m getting kinda hungry again. look, miss ogi... i’m not up to japanese ways of doing things. maybe i’m saying the wrong thing. maybe my american manners are embarrassing. but i figured, as you came over here tonight, maybe you were interested a little bit in meeting me too. maybe i’m wrong, but if i’m wrong, then you got to tell me where we go from here. cos i don’t know what to say. i’m runnin’ out of things to say. my father was killed by american bomb dropped on my country. you have been my enemy. i have hated americans. i have thought they are savages. there has been nothing but vengeance in my heart. miss ogi, there were an awful lot of americans that were killed too. i think it would be best if we forgot about that. you have been watching me at the bridge. watching me dance. watching me as i go back to the dormitory. but i have been watching you too. and you have not looked like a savage. and when katsumi-san told me how gently you kissed her the day she became a bride, how tenderly you kissed my sweet little friend, i realised the hate was of my own making. that is why i came to ask you to forgive me for what i have been feeling. gruver-san, will you forgive me? you make me feel like an awful fool, miss ogi. i really feel that i oughta ask you to forgive me for some of the things that... i’ve been thinking. i come from the north of japan and my father was a farmer. there were nine children. and we were very poor. there are too many people in my crowded country. i took the examination at matsubayashi and now i am first dancer of all. when i’m too old to dance, i will become head teacher. my life is planned. i am dedicated to matsubayashi, as you are dedicated to american military life. i have never been in love... but i have dreamed and thought about it... and waited. the danger that lies ahead of us, we must face now. the danger of discovery for both of us. the danger of weakness when it is over. i will never fall in love again. but i will love you, if that is your desire. {y:i}(speaks japanese) how do you do? - miss webster. - hello. - mr nakamura, how nice of you to come. - it is a great pleasure. and may i say that you look especially beautiful today. i haven’t been to this month’s kabuki programme. i know. you see, i have been waiting. - eileen. - mother, you remember mr nakamura. - how do you do, mrs webster? - yes, of course. this party isn’t given especially for you. you’ve got to circulate around and cement japanese-american relations. that’s exactly what mr nakamura and i are doing. nakamura-san, my little girl wants your autograph. she admires you so. - of course. will you please excuse me? - yes, of course. has lloyd come yet? how many weeks are you gonna keep on pretending? - lloyd is not coming. - i’m absolutely furious at him. how can he ignore the general’s invitation? i had it delivered to his office. i’m stuck with that farrington woman. can you help me out? uh-oh. there’s crawford. whenever he shows up, there’s always something. can i speak to you alone for a minute, general? major, do you have that list with you? i want to see if the williams have come. yes, they have. waiter. could you leave? the reason i took this up with you is because it concerns major gruver. we think he’s hooked onto a japanese dame. i’m sorry, but this thing’s gotten me all riled up. do you realise what it’ll mean to the enlisted men if they find out that their big hero, ace gruver, is out with... i’ve known major gruver all his life. i’m a close friend of his father’s. - i assure you, you must be wrong. - he was seen going into that house. my men have been watching a troublemaker named kelly. - he’s shacked up with another native... - kelly’s married to a japanese girl. major gruver was the best man. it seems quite natural to me that he’d visit them. - how am i gonna handle the situation? - don’t handle it. i trust major gruver implicitly. is it all right with you if i post an order to keep these officers from being seen with indigenous personnel? if they are seen, there’s something we can do. all right. lloyd. {y:i}(speaks japanese) no one saw you come? no, there’s no military personnel around here. except me. - we must go to the tea ceremony. - yeah, i know. good afternoon. all this getting up and down like to kill me. he makes such a production of everything. the pleasure does not lie in the end itself. it’s the pleasurable steps to that end. i see. {y:i}(hums) - that you, ace? - yeah, kelly. - come on in here. - i can’t right now. he’d be surprised you come in this way. he’d faint. just a little lower, katsumi. you always seem to be a little above it. yeah, that’s it. yeah, yeah. "(? jazz on radio)" kelly-san, now you get in tub? ok, all right. - is hana-ogi coming over tonight? - yeah, if she can get away. we gonna cook up some fine st louis goulash with a little memphis greens. what are you doing tonight after dinner when hana-ogi goes back to the theatre? "(gruver)" nothing. how about playing poker with katsumi and me? "(gruver)" i’d be delighted to take your money, and your pants. this is the life, ain’t it, ace? {y:i}(whisties to radio) there you are. how d’you do? i got one word for you. - what is that? - food. ? sayonara ? japanese goodbye ? whisper “sayonara” ? lover, don’t you cry ? no more we stop to see ? pretty cherry blossom ? no more we ‘neath the tree ? looking at the sky ? sayonara ? sayonara ? goodbye {y:i}(taps bowl in applause) that’s the cutest thing i ever saw, honey. i must go. ooh: good eatin’. bye-bye. are you going back to the officers’ quarters tonight? no, i think i’m gonna just fool around here. what will you do all evening? what am i gonna do? i’m gonna get some beer, pretzels, girls. i’m gonna have a little fun for a change. good. i don’t like you to be lonely. take care. {y:i}(knocking) come on in, katsumi. i’m sorry, lloyd. i had to come. it’s important. hello, eileen. how are you? sit down, will you? i’ll take this stuff out the way. i was just gettin’ a little... sit down here. how are you? - they’re after you, lloyd. - who’s after me? there’s a colonel. his name’s crawford. oh, yeah. i know him. he’s the one that’s riding kelly. this is kelly’s house. yes, i know. - you want to hear this, don’t you, lloyd? - yeah, sure. course i do. i overheard colonel crawford say that he’s been having this house watched, hoping to catch kelly at something irregular, i suppose. anyhow, that’s how i knew where it was. well, then they... they’ve seen me coming in and out of here. yes. i just felt that i had to tell you... eileen... there’s something that i feel that... i must go, lloyd. i just wanted to warn you to be particularly careful about... about what, honey? about sticking strictly to military regulations. lloyd, they’ll do anything to hang something on you, to keep you in line. after all, you’re the air force’s pin-up boy, you know. colonel crawford sounded as if he was after blood. - more than anything i could think of... - i must go now, lloyd. good luck. wait a minute. let me help you. eileen, i know... lloyd, you’ve really thought seriously about what you’re doing, haven’t you? yes, i... i think i have. i hope so. you’ve a brilliant record in the air force. people depend upon you. before you throw all that you’ve worked for away, be sure. please be sure. eileen, i don’t think if i had a million years that i could tell you how all this happened. i’d better go before i lose all my charm. do you like this old curious play? yeah, i’m beginning to get a kick out of it. - see the rope between the rocks? - yeah. that is a shinto sign showing they are married. - what, the rocks? - yes. they’ve been together so long, our people thought it was time they got married. - they look well together, don’t you think? - yeah. make a handsome little couple. do you like my country? yeah, was all these funny things here before when i came through japan? yes. - well, hello. - hello there, double-double ugly. to what do we owe the honour of this visit? laundry. gonna put down the dirties and pick up the cleans. i hope you know what you’re doing. this came in. thought you might like to see it. ”this is a routine reminder of the recent orders issued by camp kobe:” ”any public display of affection for a japanese national by a member of this command is forbidden.” ”officers should not even appear on public streets accompanied by indigenous female personnel.” - hooray for christmas. - this is serious. everybody got one. listen, fool, hana-ogi and i are just as careful as we can be. we never go anyplace where we’re gonna be seen by anybody that matters. we don’t even walk down the same street. we just go out in the country and fool around. you’ve never been to the country around here, have you? awful pretty country round here. i mean it. you know what i saw yesterday? i saw two rocks that just got married. - you what? - i saw two rocks that got married. - and they looked very happy together too. - i’ll bet they did. they did. if you were gonna be smart, i’ll tell you what you’d do. you’d get your shoes shined and go out tonight, cos tonight is gonna be tanabata. ok, what’s tanabata? you’re gonna sit there and tell me you don’t know what tanabata is? yeah. my word, boy. i’m ashamed of you. i thought everybody knew what tanabata was. tanabata is the night of love. you told me all about it one time. you were telling me about harry truman and new york yankees and sex, and new york yankees and harry truman and sex. {y:i}(mumbles) what have i done to deserve such happiness? i have seen this night of tanabata come and go many times, but never before have i understood what it meant. tanabata. my heart is so full of love for you. {y:i}(drumming) {y:i}(shouts in japanese) - miss webster? - yes? nakamura-san get your note. here is reply. he wishes if you will have dinner with him and his guests. thank you very much. they have a rather pleasant garden here, miss webster. - would you like to see it? - yes, i think i would. {y:i}(singing in japanese) how beautiful. what are you really afraid of, miss webster? you don’t think it would enter major gruver’s mind to marry a japanese girl? i don’t know. then permit me to reassure you. i think major gruver is brave, but not brave enough to face the censure that would result from such a marriage. as for our famous, honoured hana-ogi, there are many japanese - most of them, in fact - who look upon marriage to an occidental with as much distaste as your people do to one of us. i do not feel that way, but then i have had the privilege of travelling in your country and knowing some great people there. and i am especially conscious at this moment that beauty is not confined to any one race. do not turn away, miss webster. i am not necessarily making love to you. i am only stating a very obvious fact. may i see you again, miss webster, and acquaint you with more japan? of course. i need to know more, much more, about everything. there she is. hello, honey. are you tired? no, i just been lying here thinking about myself. i can’t believe i’m really here. it’s hard to believe me being the same lloyd gruver that came over from korea just a little bit ago. i’ve been thinking that all my life i’ve been so busy... snapping to and giving orders and taking orders and being a general’s son and doing the job and all that, i just never took time to sit right down and... you know, think about what my reason for living is. and i’ve been spending some afternoons here just... bein’ peaceful and easy and thinking. and i believe for the first time i... i’m just beginning to understand what it’s all about, what i really am and what i really want. it’s a nice feeling. {y:i}(knocking) come on in. ace, excuse me. i hate to bother you. - i just got the news. - you got what news? - i’m gettin’ shipped back. - you’re being shipped back where? stateside. i’ve been reassigned to a new duty station. well... - did you tell katsumi yet? - no. don’t tell her. maybe we can work something out. what reason did they give you for it? no reason. but i know what it is. every guy on that list is married to a japanese girl. i’m sorry, major. there’s nothing you can do. we’re sending kelly to the states thursday, and that’s that. what about his wife, colonel? she stays here. he knew he couldn’t take her back with him when he married her. - didn’t you? - that’s right. you’d be busting up his home, then. i’m not busting up anything. though i admit kelly’s been a pain in my side for quite a while now. could you tell me why he didn’t have the privilege of extending his tour of duty? don’t ask me, major. there are lots of reasons for these things. anyway, it is an order and there’s nothing you can do about it, even if you are a four-star general’s son. yeah, well... would it make any difference if i told you my wife’s gonna have a baby? that’s tough, i admit. colonel, under these circumstances, don’t you think that you’d be able to postpone this for a little while? maybe i could be transferred back to korea. no, you’re going home. all the boys on this list are going home. - where is your home? - that house by the canal. - i mean your real home. - that house by the canal. yeah, all right. i’ve taken all the insubordination from you i intend to. now, you listen to me, wise guy. that house by the canal is off limits from now on. whole street’s off limits. do you want a court martial? does that mean i could stay in japan? you’re shipping outta here on thursday. and don’t you try to help him. remember that house by the canal is off limits to all personnel. would you tell me just exactly what you mean by that last remark? that’s all i’m prepared to say at the minute. except you watch your step. i don’t know what else to tell you, general. i’ve known this boy a long time. if he has to go back without katsumi, he’s gonna be in trouble. that’s about it. that’s it. - what about his wife? - i don’t know. and the baby? so the army lets them get married and then forces them to desert their wives. that’s not fair, eileen. a boy away from home for the first time, lonesome, often falls in love with the first girl he touches, in most cases with a girl from the streets. it’s up to the service in some measure to be fathers and mothers to these boys and try to head off these marriages. but after they’re married, why send them home? he’s being transferred to a new duty station, along with many others. don’t ask me the reasons for changes of duty. there are thousands of them. but lloyd said most of the men on this list are married to japanese girls. - that can’t be just a coincidence. - why not? it could easily be. frankly, with some of these men, i think they might welcome the transfer. why’s that, sir? there have been unfortunate aftermaths to many of these marriages. recriminations, regrets. a boy gets married impulsively, then feels caught, doesn’t know how to get out of it. change of duty gives them both a chance to think it over, to cool off. i don’t mean to imply that’s the reason these men are being transferred but... well, the whole thing’s a messy business. general webster, there is no regret in the case of kelly and katsumi. you can have my word on that. lloyd, three officers came to me today with identical requests for their men. it’s not our policy to interfere with decisions made by commanding officers. the basic structure of the military service would collapse if we did things like that. your father would understand that, even if you don’t. you’re asking me to make an exception of kelly when i’ve refused these other men? i am gonna ask you to do that, sir. you made an exception of me when you brought me from korea. i’m afraid it’s a hopeless situation, lloyd. well... that’s the end of joe kelly. you told me yourself that kelly’s past record was against him. i couldn’t even use that. why does this mean so much to you, lloyd? kelly’s from my outfit, mrs webster, i was his best man, and i’m planning to marry a japanese girl myself. come into the other room, eileen. this is something for your father to handle. no, mrs webster. i don’t think this is anything for anybody to handle. i’m sorry, eileen. mrs webster. good afternoon. i don’t think i’ll ever love anyone again as much as i love lloyd. but i’ll tell you something that’s rather ironic. i once asked lloyd if he ever felt like grabbing me and hauling me off to a shack somewhere. that’s just what he’s done, isn’t it? only it’s with somebody else. don’t go out, eileen. stay and talk. i’m sorry, mother. there’s only one person i’d like to talk to at the moment. and, oddly enough, he’s japanese. - ace, i’ve been waiting for you. - kelly, listen. i just came from general webster’s house. there’s a whole big mess there. - no good, huh? - no. he didn’t go for it. matter of fact, i think i even messed it up a little. that figures. did you tell katsumi yet? i’m chickening out fast. besides, she’s got her heart set on something she planned for us tonight. wants us to take the train over to osaka and meet the girls at the puppet show. why spoil it? maybe i’ll tell her late tonight when we’re alone. listen, kelly, don’t give up on it. i think there’s gonna be a way out of it. you think so? i don’t. - i’ll see you, ace. - kelly-san. tell katsumi we’ll be there with bells. were you able to help? - no. - how terrible. i know it’s hard, honey, but it’s not gonna last long. the army’s gotta change that law next year, or the next one. it just has to be. i’m sure of it. and, in fact, i’m so sure of it that i went downtown today and i signed some papers here that mean that you and i are gonna get married. - what’s the matter? - we never spoke of marriage. i know we didn’t, darling. i know we didn’t. i’ve been going round and round with that every day for a long time. i didn’t feel i could speak about it until now. but now i can. now, of course, i won’t be able to take you back to america, but they’re bound to change that ridiculous law soon. until then i’m gonna stay here with you. i’m not stuck in the air force. i can resign. course, i’m not trained to do anything else, but i’d find something. we never spoke of marriage. i know we didn’t, darling, but we’re speaking of it now. do you remember the first night we talked? i said there would be danger of weakness when it is over. over? what are you talking about? i’m tempted. with you, i could become and woman and a mother, and i could love you. that’s right. do you think i haven’t thought about it? do you think i want to become a lonely old woman who teaches dancing, now that i have known you? but it is no good. - you must know it too. - no. i don’t know anything of the kind. the way you talk about leaving the air force, finding some pitiful way of earning living, just to be here with your japanese wife. wait a minute, wait a minute. i think we’re too far into this thing to be talking like that. matsubayashi has been kind to me, lloyd. - i am obligated to them. - no, you ain’t. no, no. you are obligated to me. they are my life. i would bring shame to them, disgrace. lloyd, you know what i mean. yeah, i think i’m beginning to know what you mean. i think you mean you simply don’t love me enough to go on through with it. that’s what you mean, don’t you? why don’t you just come on out and say it? it is not what i mean. i’m leaving for tokyo in six days. matsubayashi are sending me. you what? with another troupe. they have found out about us. any other girl they would have dismissed, but because they like me, because they feel i am important to them, they are being lenient. well, i’m not gonna be lenient with you. i want you to tell me why matsubayashi means more to you than i do. lloyd, there is something about myself i have not told you. i have no right to marry anyone. my father was very poor. to save his other children, he was forced to sell one of his daughters. the man from the houses of yoshiwara came to him. because i was the oldest, he agreed i should go with him. your father sold you? yes, but i was saved from starting this life by my best friend, fumiko-san. her father paid money to free me. then she brought me to matsubayashi. there i not only earned my living, i brought honour back to my family. matsubayashi has been kind to me. they have trusted me. i cannot leave them. i cannot marry anyone. don’t you understand? i don’t know. - i don’t know what to think. {y:i}- (smashing) i’ll kill you: you ever do anything like this and i’ll kill you, you understand? - wait a minute. just take it easy, now. - ace, look at this. - it fell out of her bag. - what is it? she was gonna have it done tomorrow, by that quack doctor down by the docks. for eight bucks he slashes her eyelids and sews ‘em back up again. lots of these stupid little jerks have it done. she was gonna surprise me. then... then i have good eyes, i fool everybody. i look american, like joe. hana-ogi, will you tell that stupid dame i love her the way she is? i don’t want her changed. will you tell her i love her mouth and her nose and her ears and her eyes just the way they are? tell her if she ever does anything like that, i’ll... i want him be proud of me. i’m sorry. if you want him to be proud of you, quit this stuff. you’re making him very unhappy. tell him you’re not gonna do it any more. - tell him that. - joe. {y:i}(speaks japanese) i’m so sorry. {y:i}(speaks japanese) we’re gonna forget about that. i thought we were gonna have a fish fry, have some fun and dancing and yelling. and what do i find? so what’s gonna happen to us? - puppet show. - we had a surprise. - you like? - sure i do. i’ve been looking forward to it. - everybody tonight? - yeah. {y:i}(speaks japanese) we will be late. {y:i}(singing) look. the lover is leaving the city. walk to the wood. lloyd, don’t think of anything now. watch the play. it’s a tender story. when gong sound, it is dawn, and then she will bind her body. bind her body? so that she will not fall in an ugly position of dishonour when she dies. - when she dies? - yes. {y:i}(gong sounds) it is custom for lovers to die together when they can no longer face life. it is so beautiful. beautiful? they’re gonna die, aren’t they? they will live in another world on a beautiful lake, floating always together. like water lily. sure. {y:i}(applause) "(child)" kelly-san: kelly-san: kelly-san: {y:i}(kelly speaks japanese) {y:i}(speaks japanese) something about soldiers going through the house. - that’s the mps, boy. - what happened? what’s wrong? - what happened? - get in the car. - please tell me. - go to matsubayashi. i’ll tell you later. matsubayashi. hey, ed, look. look at that. - you’re major gruver, aren’t you? - that’s right. you’ll have to come with us. general webster’s orders. what right do you have to board up this house? he won’t be needing it. he’s shipping out. joe: come on, major. you’ll hear from me, kelly. come on, kid. we’ll get in through the garden. i got something to tell you. you were seen in public with her tonight, violating orders. this has given me the right to put you under arrest. and for your own sake, i think i better do it. well? have you anything to say? just as soon as i’m out of this, i’m gonna be married and have a house of my own. i’m afraid not. i’m sorry, lloyd, but it’s all settled. the supervisor of the matsubayashi came to see me tonight. the girl goes to tokyo and you fly to randolph field the day after tomorrow. here are your orders. until that time, you’re under house arrest. you’re not to leave your quarters until further notice. i’m doing this because i feel you’re not responsible at the moment. after all, i’ve known your father for years. well, that’s all. {y:i}(horn blares) mike. - did you see her? - i couldn’t get near the place. they’ve really clamped down. i couldn’t even see fumiko-san. i’ve got to see her. i’m being shipped out tomorrow. - major gruver. - what is it? - would you do something for us? - what do you want? - airman kelly’s disappeared. - that’s impossible. - i was with him just last night. - we know. a special plane came through and colonel crawford told us to get him on it. i took him to the airport at 1 2.50. when the plane took off, kelly wasn’t on it. - we figured you might know where he is. - his house has been boarded up. we know. neighbours won’t talk to us. we figure maybe they’re hiding him. they’ll talk with you, major. would you help us? would you give me one good reason why i should? we figured we’d give him a break. we haven’t reported him yet. if we get him on another plane, we might not have to turn him in for desertion. - desertion? - yes, sir. well... - i’ll go with you in a minute. - major. the neighbours won’t talk if they see an mp. - i’ll go with him. - thank you, sir. kelly? it’s gruver out here. i think he’s in there. kelly? i’m goin’ on in. kelly? {y:i}(water running) kelly? kelly? you in there? oh, my god: oh, my... oh... i’ll call the police, ace. oh, god: "(whispers)" sayonara, kelly-san. sayonara, katsumi-san. sayonara, my lloyd-san. "(crowd chanting)" go home: go home: ace, there’s no police around. we better get outta here. hey, look. doesn’t look too good, boy. {y:i}(crowd continue chanting) come on, take it easy. we’re gettin’ help, ace. - you ok, boy? - i’m fine. you all right? yeah. i’m gonna... i want you to take care of everything, will you? yeah, i’ll get it. i’ll see you later. {y:i}(whisties) - where’s hana-ogi? - hana-ogi is not here. - i know she’s here. - she is on her way tokyo. - she wasn’t going till next week. - she went today. - i don’t believe you. - major gruver: it’s forbidden to go in. {y:i}(women singing) hana-ogi? hana-ogi? hana-ogi? hana-ogi? hana-ogi? - gruver-san: - where’s hana-ogi? - she’s gone. - where’s her room? - she’s gone. - listen, where’s her room? come here. hana-ogi really gone, major. i don’t believe you. hana-ogi? i give you my word. you go now too, major. it’s over. leave me alone a minute, will you? {y:i}(speaks japanese) the hoodlums who attacked you weren’t all your japanese neighbours. they were troublemakers sent to your street to create an incident specifically with you. if you’re important to those who hate us, don’t you see how important you are to us? do you understand any of this, lloyd? i know how you feel. it was... it was dreadful about your friend kelly and... and his wife. it must be hard to take. and i... i hate to tell you something else, because it’s almost too grotesque... almost unforgivable in your eyes, i imagine. i got word today that there’s a law being passed in a month or two that will make it possible for men like kelly to take their japanese brides back to the states. - that can’t be true, general. - well, it happens to be true, lloyd. listen, how do you get the guts to come here and tell me that? it takes time to get laws passed, lloyd. and a lot of people have died in this world needlessly waiting for them. it’s harder to take when it hits you personally. lloyd... you’re lost. you’re confused. don’t you think it’s time you got back to the mainstream of your life? back to your roots, what you were born for and raised for. you’ll feel better about everything when you get back home, back to your work. i appreciate you coming over, general. take me to the airport, mike. that must be him. - hold it so we can get a picture, general. - where would you like me? smile, please. - bill, isn’t that ace gruver? - looks like him. sir. aren’t you major gruver? ace gruver? - that’s right. - we’re from the "stars and stripes." - what are you doing in tokyo? - i’m just passing through, boys. - just seeing the sights, huh? - that’s right. i’m in a hurry. - do you mind if i excuse myself? sorry. - you’re excused. "(? band plays)" {y:i}(hana-ogi sings in japanese) it’s gruver: gruver-san: {y:i}(speak japanese) lloyd-san. hello. {y:i}(speaks japanese) hello, hana-ogi. i’m goin’ back to america on friday, and i probably won’t get back in japan again. and before i go, there was just... just one thing i wanted to know. you remember one time you said to me... that you could love me and be a wife and a mother? i remember. you said that since you’d known me, you’d been afraid of being a lonely old woman teaching dancing. remember that? i remember. did you mean that when you said it, hana-ogi? i meant it. it is already happening. life has gone out of my work, out of me. lloyd, please go now. this will only bring pain and trouble. hana-ogi, you and i are gonna have more trouble than we ever thought of having in our whole lives unless you are absolutely honest with yourself. please, lloyd, can’t we talk about this later? no. there’s isn’t gonna be any later. there’s only gonna be right now. excuse me, mother. excuse me. i must return this robe. i wanna know - do you love me or don’t you? because if you don’t, then i’m gonna have to find a way to live with it. - and if you do... - please, lloyd. wait a minute. wait a minute. i don’t want you to tell me anything more or anything less than you feel in the very deepest part of you. because what you answer to me now is gonna affect us for the rest of our lives. do you love me, hana-ogi, or don’t you love me? i’m so frightened and confused. i cannot think. i cannot even understand your thinking. i’m not thinking. for the first time in my life i’m not thinking and i don’t care. but we must do the right thing. what are you talking about, the right thing? we been wasting two good lives trying to do the right thing - the right thing for matsubayashi, the right thing for my father, the right thing for the military, the right thing for japanese tradition, the right thing for the great white race. - but we have duties and obligations. - we do have duties and obligations. the first obligation we have is to love each other, to become man and wife and raise some clean, sweet children, and give them the very best that we know how. and if we don’t meet that obligation, we ain’t gonna be any good to anybody. we live in different worlds, come from different races. honey, i want you to be my wife. but what would happen to our children? what would they be? what would they be? they’d be half-japanese, half-american. they’d be half-yellow and half-white. they’d be half you, they’d be half me. that’s all they’re gonna be. hana-ogi, i want you to come with me now. i want you to come with me now down to the american consulate. here in tokyo. we’re gonna start filling out those papers. we’ve only got a few days to get this whole thing done and out of the way. will you come? i’m gonna wait for you outside. did i tell you they’d be here? - look at this crowd. - look who’s here. our rivals. you guys heard about it too? no secrets. no secrets in this country. major, what a coincidence. you got a story for us, sir? no, as a matter of fact, i don’t. - you’re not gonna try to deny it, are you? - deny what? the story. why won’t you give us the story? - you’re big news now, sir. - i don’t know what you’re talking about. here’s hana-ogi. maybe she’ll talk. {y:i}(speak japanese) {y:i}(excited chatter from crowd) come on, hana-ogi. that’s not fair. what did you say? it is very difficult for a japanese woman to speak in public. i have never done so. but perhaps now it is the time. major gruver has asked me to be his... his wife. he knows there are many people in this country who will be disturbed by this. i know my people will be shocked too. but i hope they will learn to understand and someday approve. we are not afraid, because we know this is right. i hope i can continue as a dancer and i hope when i am old, i will be able to teach children to dance. - my own children. {y:i}- (crowd gasps) major, the big brass are gonna yell their heads off. the japanese aren’t gonna like it either. have you got anything to say to them, sir? yeah. tell ‘em we said “sayonara”. ? "sayonara" ? "japanese goodbye" ? "whisper “sayonara”" ? "lover, don’t you cry" ? "no more we stop to see" ? "pretty cherry blossom" ? "no more we ‘neath the tree" ? "looking at the sky" ? "sayonara" ? "sayonara" ? "goodbye"