♪ who's got the stuff that made the wild west wild? ♪ ♪ who pleases every woman man and child? ♪ ♪ who does his best to give the customers a thrill? ♪ ♪ who? ♪ ♪ colonel buffalo bill ♪ ♪ who's got the show that gets the most applause? ♪ ♪ five hundred indians and fifty squaws ♪ ♪ ten featured acts ♪ ♪ and there's a special feature still ♪ ♪ who? ♪ ♪ colonel buffalo bill ♪ ♪ did you ever see a cowboy rope a steer? ♪ ♪ no we haven't ♪ ♪ or an indian with feathers throw a spear? ♪ ♪ no we haven't ♪ ♪ or a marksman shoot ♪ ♪ an earring from an ear? ♪ ♪ no we haven't ♪ ♪ did you ever see a hold up? ♪ ♪ no sir ♪ ♪ then gather closer ♪ ♪ and let me give you some of the atmosphere ♪ ♪ introducing the world's greatest sharpshooter ♪ ♪ mister frank butler ♪ ♪ the hour is midnight ♪ ♪ and all is still ♪ ♪ we see the stage coach ♪ ♪ climbing up a hill ♪ ♪ going along the mountain trail ♪ ♪ carrying passengers and mail ♪ ♪ never suspecting ♪ ♪ danger as they roll along ♪ ♪ the watchful driver ♪ ♪ is in his seat ♪ ♪ his trusty rifle ♪ ♪ lying at his feet ♪ ♪ some of the passengers inside ♪ ♪ seem to be dozing as they ride ♪ ♪ never suspecting ♪ ♪ there is something ♪ ♪ really wrong ♪ ♪ suddenly there's a shout ♪ ♪ what is it all about? ♪ ♪ what is it all about you ask ♪ ♪ it's indians indians ♪ ♪ indians indians ♪ ♪ very notable ♪ cut your throat-able indians ♪ ♪ indians ♪ ♪ just when they've taken everyone by force ♪ ♪ who makes an entrance on a big white horse? ♪ ♪ who starts a-shootin' ♪ ♪ till there's no one left to kill? ♪ ♪ general grant ♪ ♪ no colonel buffalo bill ♪ ♪ who's got the stuff that made the wild west wild? ♪ ♪ who pleases every woman man and child? ♪ ♪ who does his best to give ♪ ♪ the customers a thrill? ♪ ♪ colonel ♪ ♪ buffalo ♪ ♪ bill ♪ oh, good afternoon. what's going on here? indians! now look here. what do you think you're doing? well, i'm busy now. you'll have to make an appointment. - hey, stop that. - my good man... are you suggesting we keep the people of this town in ignorance about the grandest show on earth? i'm suggesting that you clear out of here. this is my hotel. i won't have any signs tacked up. why, you must be, uh, uh... uh, uh, don't tell me. uh, mr. wilson. well, how do you do, sir? this is a great pleasure. allow me to introduce myself. i'm charles davenport personal manager for buffalo bill cody. well, i'm glad to know you, but you can't... when we'll hold our shooting match this afternoon everybody in town will be here watching. why, it's the greatest advertising in the world. hey, what shooting match? frank butler against your local shot. we do it in every town. not here, you don't. this is my hotel and my lawn, and you're not holding any match on it. mr. wilson, we're taking ten of your room. for all the cowboys and indians? for the headliners. the indians can sleep in the lobby. - indians! oh, boy! - yeah, okay. i don't want any actors. i just had pawnee bill and his far east show here. and some of them chase my guest up and downstairs on horseback. now take you stuff and get. hey, nice lawn you got here. i'll rent it from you. twenty five dollars for the afternoon. - no. no. - fifty dollars. how about fifty dollars in cash and two squaws? no. no. how about 50 squaws and $2 in cash? - no. - no? no, no, kid. look, i'm gonna feed you to the indians. indian! oh, boy! - hey, uh, charlie. - yeah? looks a little small for the contest though. - oh, you don't like it, huh? - not much. that's good 'cause you haven't got it. - who says so? - he does. get that horse out of here. he seems to think it's his hotel. oh, did you mention my name? he stood up under it. well, girls... here's some passes for the show. - thank you, frank. - thank you. don't miss my entrance, huh? alright, frank. don't forget dinner now. - bye, frank. - i'll be there. - alright. - bye. bye. i'm frank butler. you've heard of me? yes, you're the fellow without a place to sleep. wait a minute. i'm here to do you a favor. i'm gonna give you a chance to win a $100. yeah, how? just get the local champion up and i'll give you a side bid of a $100 against ten rooms for our actors. no, sir. now clear all this stuff off the porch before i call the marshal. - you sure charmed him. - yeah, we don't need him. tell the boys to start packin' up. we'll hold the match back at the fairground. yes, your majesty. - see you later. - yes, your majesty. alright, fellas, start loadin' up. we're movin' back to town. i'll go back and break the good news to buffalo bill. hey, dolly! dolly! dolly, come on, we're movin'. movin'? i'm not movin' again for anybody! alright, you stay here and come back in with the boys. i've been shot. indians! indians? that's my bird. did you fire that shot? it wasn't nothin'. it wasn't nothing? you could have killed me! - give me that bird. - it's mine. i shot it. you shot it right off my hat. how did it get up there? i sewed it up there. what for? it ain't no good. ain't got no meat on it. it's not an eating bird. - it's a wearing bird. - oh. well, alright, ma'am, but around these parts you're gonna have to keep sewing it on 'cause folks are gonna keep shooting it off. you've ruined it! yeah, it sure looks beat, ma'am. here, have one of mine. oh, get that filthy thing away from me! she ain't filthy. she looks better than you do and she's got a bullet in her head. i heard shooting. this creature tried to murder me. - is that gun loaded? - sure. - but i can empty it quick. - oh, no! wait for me! oh, i wouldn't have really shot her. oh, that's mighty civilized of you. say, a fellow down the road a piece tells me this here's a boarding hotel. yeah, well, what if it is? well, maybe you and me can do some trading. what have you got to trade? well, i got quails, wild ducks and i got grouses... no, i can get all the game i want. yeah, but when folks eat the kind of game you get they keep spitting out buckshot. teeth, sometimes too. mine's different. come on out, now. the man won't chase you. come on. it's alright. honest. oh, kid sisters and little brother ain't used to people yet. they never been out of darke county before. come on. shake your tails! the man's a-waiting on you. hurry up! he can't wait all day. they, uh, look a little dusty, don't they? we're in business together. i pop 'em, she plucks 'em she picks 'em, and she pulls 'em. - well, who is he? - little jake. oh, he's my bird dog. jake, stop your sniffing. what you got a sleeve for? here you are, mister. look it over. lift up its wings. no buckshot in that bird. just one little tiny hole in its head. mighty pretty shooting. mighty pretty eating, too. and for every one you take you've got to give me, uh, two nickels and a dime. alright, i'll take two dozen. how many is that? twenty-four. who do we know can count up to 24? i can count up to 20. - are you sure? - uh-huh. i can only give you 20. alright. leave the bill with 'em. - what's a bill? - why? bill's a voucher. don't you keep books? don't any of you read or write? we don't read as good as everybody. we don't read as good as anybody. ♪ folks are dumb where i come from ♪ ♪ they ain't had any learnin' ♪ ♪ still they're happy as can be ♪ doing what comes naturally ♪ ♪ folks like us could never fuss ♪ ♪ with schools and books and learnin' ♪ ♪ still we've gone from a to z ♪ ♪ doing what comes naturally ♪ ♪ you don't have to know ♪ ♪ how to read or write ♪ ♪ when you're out with a fellow ♪ ♪ in the pale moonlight ♪ ♪ you don't have to look ♪ ♪ in a book to find ♪ ♪ what he thinks of the moon ♪ ♪ and what is on his mind ♪ ♪ that comes naturally ♪ ♪ my uncle don't pay taxes ♪ ♪ his address never gives ♪ ♪ they can't collect his taxes ♪ ♪ for they don't know where he lives ♪ ♪ cousin ben got angry ♪ ♪ when they caught him stealing chickens ♪ ♪ i'm within my rights said he ♪ ♪ doing what comes naturally ♪ ♪ uncle jed has never read ♪ ♪ an almanac on drinkin' ♪ ♪ still he's always on a spree ♪ ♪ doing what comes naturally ♪ ♪ sister sal who's musical ♪ ♪ has never had a lesson ♪ ♪ still she's learned to sing off-key ♪ ♪ doing what comes naturally ♪ ♪ you don't have to go ♪ ♪ to a private school ♪ ♪ not to turn up your bustle ♪ ♪ to a stubborn mule ♪ ♪ you don't have to come ♪ ♪ from a great big town ♪ ♪ not to clean out a stable ♪ ♪ in an evening gown ♪ ♪ that comes naturally ♪ ♪ my uncle out in texas ♪ ♪ can't even write his name ♪ ♪ he signs his checks with x's ♪ ♪ but they cash them just the same ♪ ♪ grandpa dick was always sick ♪ ♪ but never saw a doctor ♪ ♪ he just died at 93 ♪ ♪ doing what comes naturally ♪ ♪ doing what comes ♪ ♪ naturally ♪ alright, now you kids. get on over to the house with them birds. yeah, the kitchen's around the back. and be sure you don't count more than 20 now. don't worry. he can't. go on. get along with you. say, that was mighty pretty. thanks. i like to sing. 'course, shooting's a lot more fun. i've been shooting since i was 10 years old. fancy shooting? i could shoot the fuzz off a peach. see that rooster up there? yeah. - now you don't. - jumping jehoshaphat! how would you like to make $5? doing what? there's a swollen headed stiff here from the wild west show. oh, i don't shoot people! no, no, he challenges anybody in the county to a shooting match. well, where is he? i can hit anything he can hit standing on my head! - watch this. - no, no, no, i believe you. i believe you. now i'll go make the arrangements. uh, you wait here. - what's your name? - annie oakley. annie oakley. come on, grandma. i got to get you shined up. how'd you get your nose so dirty? what's that you got there? what's it look like? it beats me. it's not a rifle, is it? ain't you got eyes? yeah. you got eyes. well, you shouldn't be fooling around with an old piece of junk like this. you could get hurt. well, this thing's liable to explode and blow your ears off. you give this back to your pappy and get yourself a couple of knitting needles. hey, hey, mister. do you, do you reckon i could keep it till this afternoon? well, it makes no difference to me. i just don't want you to hurt yourself. that's all. i just want to keep it long enough to win a shooting contest off of a big swollen headed stiff out of the wild west show. you mean frank butler? they didn't say his name. just that he was a swollen headed stiff, huh? - yeah. - well, he's champion. - what's that? - he's the best. he was. you're kinda set on yourself, aren't you? about that, i am, but... soon as i try to shine up to folks i'm gawky as a scrub oak. - ain't i? - oh. i don't know. well, i've seen worse than you. - honest? - sure. well, uh, good luck in the shooting match. i'll see you there. hey, hey, mister. - don't you like girls? - well, sure. - i'm a girl. - that's fine. is there, uh, any special kinda girl that you like? yeah. i like the kind that you, you see in picture magazines. sort of dainty and dimpled and rosy. ♪ the girl that i marry ♪ ♪ will have to be as soft ♪ ♪ and as pink as a nursery ♪ ♪ the girl i call my own ♪ ♪ will wear satins and laces ♪ ♪ and smell of cologne ♪ ♪ her nails will be polished ♪ ♪ and in her hair ♪ ♪ she'll wear a gardenia ♪ and i'll be there ♪ ♪ instead of flittin' ♪ ♪ i'll be sittin' ♪ ♪ next to her ♪ ♪ and she'll purr ♪ ♪ like a kitten ♪ ♪ a doll can carry ♪ ♪ the girl ♪ ♪ that i marry ♪ ♪ must be ♪ ♪ oh my mother was frightened ♪ ♪ by a shotgun they say ♪ ♪ that's why i'm ♪ ♪ such a wonderful shot ♪ ♪ and i'd practice all day ♪ ♪ but now tell me ♪ ♪ what have i got? ♪ ♪ i'm quick on the trigger ♪ ♪ with targets not much bigger ♪ ♪ than a pinpoint ♪ ♪ i'm number one ♪ ♪ but my score with a feller ♪ ♪ is lower than a cellar ♪ ♪ oh you can't get ♪ ♪ a man with a gun ♪ ♪ when i'm with a pistol ♪ ♪ i sparkle like a crystal ♪ ♪ yes i shine like the morning sun ♪ ♪ but i lose all my luster ♪ ♪ when i'm with a bronco buster ♪ ♪ oh you can't get ♪ ♪ a man with a gun ♪ ♪ with a gun ♪ ♪ no you can't get ♪ ♪ a man with a gun ♪ ♪ if i went to battle ♪ ♪ with someone's herd of cattle ♪ ♪ you would have steak ♪ ♪ when the job was done ♪ ♪ but if i shot the herder ♪ ♪ they'd lock me up for murder ♪ ♪ 'cause you can't shoot ♪ ♪ a male in the tail ♪ ♪ like a quail ♪ ♪ oh you can't get ♪ ♪ a man with a gun ♪ ♪ if i shot a rabbit ♪; ♪ some furrier would grab it ♪ ♪ for a coat that would warm someone ♪ ♪ but you can't shoot a lover ♪ ♪ and use them for a cover ♪ ♪ oh you can't get a man with a gun ♪ ♪ the gals with umbrellas ♪ ♪ are always out with fellers ♪ ♪ in the rain or the blazing sun ♪ ♪ but a man never trifles ♪ ♪ with girls who carry rifles ♪ ♪ oh you can't get a man with a gun ♪ ♪ with a gun ♪ ♪ no you can't get a man with a gun ♪ ♪ a tom dick or harry ♪ ♪ will build a house for carrie ♪ ♪ when the preacher has made them one ♪ ♪ but he can't build you houses ♪ ♪ with buckshot in his trousers ♪ ♪ 'cause a man may be hot ♪ ♪ but he's not when he's shot ♪ ♪ oh you can't get a man with a gun ♪ alright, ladies and gentlemen, gather 'round, gather 'round. now, without further ado it gives me great pleasure and it's a great privilege to introduce to you colonel william f. cody. loved by you all and known to you all as... buffalo bill! my young friends, it always gives me great pleasure to return to my favorite state, ohio. i am here today to referee a contest of fancy shooting between the best marksman your county offers and one of the greatest sharp-shooters the world has ever known... frank butler. aided and abetted by his charming assistant miss dolly tate. is, uh, mr. butler's opponent here? - is the contestant ready? - yep. good, ladies and gentlemen, prepare yourselves for the thrill of a lifetime. two men of steel pitted against each other in a savage struggle of skill and stamina. uh. what's his name? - what's his name? - annie. annie? what's so funny? say, you tryin' to make a fool of us or something? frank butler can't shoot against a girl. - you said anyone, didn't you? - yes, i know i did. what's the matter? you afraid of a little girl? no, it isn't that, but just... - what do we do, b.b.? - wh-why, nothing. the little lady accepted the challenge. she is entitled to her chance. are you really buffalo bill? - why, yes, little lady. - i'm annie oakley. well, miss oakley, i am honored. you are? frank, your opponent is ready. howdy. i told you, i'd see you here. you didn't tell me you was the big swollen-headed stiff. ain't we got a tablecloth somewhere? - are you ready, mr. butler? - ready. are you ready, my dear? yeah, but what are we shootin' at? - birds. - birds? where are they? i don't see any birds. well, these are clay birds, my dear. they come out of a trap, in front. the contest will continue until the first miss. when you are ready, my dear, just say "pull." pull? hit! pull. hey, it's wonderful! they got a gadget out there. all you have to do is holler, "pull." hit! i don't want any advantage. here, honey, try this one. dolly, the mirror. pull. watch this. hit. pull. hit. pull. pull! pull. - hit. - pull. hit. double. pull. hit. pull! hit. quadruple. pull. hit! quindrup... um, five! pull. five. pull. miss. i declare miss annie oakley winner of this contest. where's my money? where's my money? nice work. thanks. wasn't nothin'. it was easy as pie. - i am sorry. - what are you sorry about? you're just good, that's all. you ain't mad at me, are you? why, of course not. anybody can miss a shot. i can't. - oh, frank. - excuse me. here's your five dollars, annie. i'm proud of you. - thanks, mr. wilson. - where you going now, annie? well, i don't know. back to darke county, i guess. he sure is pretty. well, goodbye, annie. - goodbye, mr. wilson. - good luck. - thanks. - goodbye, kids. you kids get on and get them supplies now. - hurry on. hurry on. - okay, annie. i-i tell you, my boy, she'd be a sensation. they've never seen a girl who could shoot like that. what makes you think she's so great? just because she got one up on me? she couldn't do it again in a million years. we haven't got a million years. business keeps up like this, we're gonna have to fold up. pawnee bill is beating us every town. - yes, she'd be a novelty. - i don't want any partners. well, we'll make her your assistant. maybe once in a while, you'll let her take a potshot. now look here, you-you could break her in. and you know, she-she's quite a pretty... girl. she's alright. 'course, she looks terrible now... - but we can dress her up. - oh, yes. she couldn't look worse than dolly. she wouldn't be willing to join us just to hand me things. - oh, yes, i would, mr. butler. - well, looky here. just so as i could be near you. you ever been away from home before? oh, do i gotta leave home? oh, i think you'd find that quite fascinating, my dear. we travel all over the country. why, certainly. have you ever been on a railroad train? you know anything about show business? show business? what's that? what's show business? ♪ the cowboys the wrestlers the tumblers the clowns ♪ ♪ the roustabouts that move the show at dawn ♪ ♪ the music the spotlights the people the towns ♪ ♪ your baggage with the labels pasted on ♪ ♪ the sawdust and the horses and the smell ♪ ♪ the towel you've taken from the last hotel ♪ ♪ there's no business like show business ♪ ♪ like no business i know ♪ ♪ everything about it is appealing ♪ ♪ everything the traffic will allow ♪ ♪ nowhere could you have that happy feeling ♪ ♪ when you are stealing that extra bow ♪ ♪ there's no people like show people ♪ ♪ they smile when they are low ♪ ♪ yesterday they told you you would not go far ♪ ♪ that night you opened and there you are ♪ ♪ next day on your dressing room they've hung a star ♪ ♪ let's go on with the show ♪ ♪ the costumes the scenery the make-up the props ♪ ♪ the audience that lifts you when you're down ♪ ♪ the headaches the heartaches the backaches the flops ♪ ♪ the sheriff who escorts you out of town ♪ ♪ the opening when your heart beats like a drum ♪ ♪ the closing when the customers won't come ♪ ♪ there's no business like show business ♪ ♪ if you tell me it's so ♪ ♪ traveling through the country is so thrilling ♪ ♪ standing out in front on opening nights ♪ smiling as you watch the benches filling ♪ ♪ and see a billing up there in lights ♪ ♪ there's no people like show people ♪ ♪ they smile when they are low ♪ ♪ even with a turkey that you know will fold ♪ ♪ you may be stranded out in the cold ♪ ♪ still you wouldn't change it for a sack of gold ♪ let's go on with the show ♪ ♪ let's go on ♪ ♪ with the show ♪ who gave you indians permission to use this car? annie oakley. i might have known it. mrs. little horse, this is our car and this is my section. and i'll thank you not to do your laundry in it. look at this place. it's a disgra... sharp. this is what i mean, mr. davenport. look at this car. the woodwork. hey, you indians, stop that cutting that thing up. look what they've done to our curtains here. looks like the battle of bull run, don't it? they've done a $100 worth of damage. alright, who told you indians you could pitch a village in here? i did. they're only sitting till the smoke clears. - what smoke? - back in their coach. they was cooking a little supper and they had a small fire. oh, a small fire. a small fire! alright, you indians, break up camp and get back to your car now. hurry up. go on. come on, now. get. - annie, what gets into you? - i'm sorry, charlie. i don't mean anything. and i wanna apologize for little jake and the girls unhitching the caboose. if they only hadn't done it on a hill. oh, i... cut this out of the paper. - it's about you. - 'bout me? gee, thanks. first call for supper. first call for supper. phew! that was a close call. are you alright? yup. hey, you, come back here. while they're eating, we're gonna have our reading lesson. - now? - yes, now. have you got your book? let's see now. what's that word? are you sure that's a word? how can i learn you if you don't do no homework? oh, jake, you've gotta learn me and you've gotta learn me fast. what would frank think if he knew i couldn't read? i know what it is. it's "the." keep it goin'. "the boy had a dog.” go on. "the dog's name were was..." what's that, jake? sound it out. furr-ae-ng-kh. now that i did it, what is it? frank. that's a pretty name. "the boy's name was... "s-t-e... p-h-e-n." what's that, jake? joe. that seems an awful lot for just joe. well, readin's kind of funny sometimes. come on. "the dog was... ss-kerr-ae-ch-ch..." bless you. not catching cold, are you? heh, no, i'm just trying to learn little jake here his reading lesson. i sure am thick-headed, ain't i, annie? you get along into the eating car now and have your supper. annie reads good. show him, annie. start here. you get along now. get. get. oh, charlie gave me this newspaper clipping. - would you like to read it? - no, you read it to me. um, you read it, i-i wanna hear how it sounds when you speak it. uh, "mr. butler's assistant whose name is not on the program performed only one trick, but she promises to become a fine marksman." nice. that's pretty nice of that paper man. oh, people are beginning to notice you, annie. i told charlie to put your name on the billboard. - you did? - yep. i got a real fancy trick i've been practicing up to surprise you with. - what is it? - oh, i can't tell you. it's a surprise. that's fine. i like you to be ambitious. i want you to improve. but it'll take some time. all i want to be is a pink and white lady like the kind you said you liked. you're getting pinker and whiter every day. that ain't pig-wash, is it? what would you say if someday i might even be willing to make you my partner? oh, frank! butler and oakley. never thought i'd ask a girl to be my partner. oakley and butler. butler and oakley. well, what's the difference? well, you... you gotta do it in alphabetical order. you know, there's, uh, gonna be a wishing moon out tonight. back home, i used to wish for a lot of things but, lately, they sure have been catching up to me. annie, uh... you ever love anybody? you mean, somebody who loved me back? - yeah. - then, i ain't. but i hear tell about it. ♪ they say ♪ ♪ that falling in love ♪ ♪ is wonderful ♪ ♪ it's wonderful ♪ ♪ so they say ♪ ♪ and with the moon up above ♪ ♪ it's wonderful ♪ ♪ so they tell me ♪ ♪ i can't recall who said it ♪ ♪ i know i never read it ♪ ♪ i only know ♪ ♪ they tell me that love is grand ♪ ♪ and ♪ ♪ the thing that's known ♪ ♪ as romance is wonderful ♪ ♪ wonderful ♪ ♪ in every way ♪ ♪ so they say ♪ ♪ rumors fly and they often leave a doubt ♪ ♪ but you've come to the right place ♪ to find out ♪ ♪ everything that you've heard ♪ ♪ is really so ♪ ♪ i've been there ♪ ♪ once or twice ♪ ♪ and i should know ♪ ♪ you'll find that falling in love ♪ ♪ is wonderful ♪ ♪ it's wonderful ♪ ♪ as they say ♪ ♪ and with a moon up above ♪ ♪ it's wonderful ♪ ♪ as they tell you ♪ ♪ you'll leave your house a morning ♪ ♪ and without any warning ♪ ♪ you're stopping people ♪ ♪ shouting that love ♪ ♪ is grand ♪ ♪ and ♪ ♪ to hold a man in your arms ♪ ♪ is wonderful ♪ ♪ wonderful ♪ ♪ in every way ♪ ♪ i sure ♪ ♪ say ♪ well, listen. it's getting on to bed time. well, i, uh, better mosey on back to my car. do you mind if i walk you home? you better go on to bed. goodnight. goodnight. hurry! hurry, ladies and gentlemen! step this way and see the... charlie, charlie, my boy. something is wrong. here we've been parading around all morning and... how do you do, my dear? and still the customers don't come. maybe you need some new attractions. no, no, no. what we need is just one good attraction. something that will make 'em sit up and take... take notice. pawnee bill! the two-timing double crosser... that's where all your business is. opening in st. paul is like opening next door. he's been doing this to us all the way across the country. but this time he ain't gonna get away with it! yeah, well, who's gonna stop him? i am! i've got an idea. come on! let's see annie. move on. uh, annie... annie, you remember that stunt you've been practicing? - uh-huh. - well, now... charlie and i thought that, uh, this afternoon, you-you might, uh... well, well, th-that's a very good stunt, huh? what he means is, we wants you to do it in the show this afternoon. oh, i couldn't do that! frank might not like it! oh, of course, he would. it'll surprise him, uh... you like him, don't you? oh, i like him a heap. uh, has he asked you to marry him? not yet. he ain't broke out in a cold sweat enough for that. well, that's why we're doing this for you. this is your big chance! you'll dazzle him! why, when you walk out there in front of that audience this afternoon in that beautiful new costume with the music under you and you try that new trick that you've been saving for him... he'll be so proud of me, he'll bust out in that cold sweat. that's it. charlie, buffalo, wait till i tell him. oh, no, wait. now, annie, look. we-we, we wanna surprise him, you see. he's going to expect you to do that old trick where you shoot the egg off the poodle's head. instead, instead, you come on you do the new trick, you save the show and you marry frank! just like in a fairy tale! oh, you're sure he'll like it? well, y... yes, i... i think he will... i think he will. uh, mr. frank butler is in for a real surprise. look at that business. this will fix that pawnee bill. when word gets around about annie he won't have enough customers to get up a two-handed poker game. you're right, bb. that dirty two-timing double-crossing treacherous, thieving, stealing... well, buffalo bill! well, pawnee bill, my old pal. you are a sight for sore eyes. well, we were just talking about you. weren't we, charlie? just this minute. we were just saying, we don't see enough of you. well, i get a little bit lonely, too, bb. any time during the past six months you wanted to see us, all you had to do was turn around and spit. same old charlie, hasn't changed a bit. oh, you haven't met big chief sitting bull, have you? well, well, no. i haven't. why, sure, everybody knows big chief sitting bill who defeated general custer at the battle of the little bighorn! and the man who tonight will be the guest of honor in st. paul of none other than pawnee bill! alright, folks. now don't lose your place in line. the great annie oakley is on the inside... oh, annie oakley? see, i'm anxious to see her. - i'll get some tickets. - oh, hold on here. i wouldn't have it in here. couple of passes to my own private box. well, well, punched right through the center. annie oakley shot them out. - annie oakley? - oh, yeah. well, we've got annie oakley's. and i'll see you inside. there you are, chief. come along. i better follow him. he's likely to steal the benches. uh, how's business, chief? going back on the warpath soon? no, on way home from washington. oh, okay. go see great white father about indian territory. say, they gave you bad shuffle on that land. well, maybe you can farm it. nothing will grow. too much oil. - fifty thousand barrel a day. - fifty thousand... say now, that's too bad, chief. uh, how are you gonna live? you can't eat oil. tell you what i'm gonna do. no put money in show business. - oh, you can have a lot of fun. - no! twenty thousand dollars, chief. we could have a... sitting bull lives by three rule. keep bow tight, keep arrow sharp no put money in show business. how did we ever get the country away from them? hi, charlie! the bidders look... well, who put that up there? yeah, it looks great, don't it? i told you to put her name up some place. not to make a star out of her. that's ridiculous! she's only doing a couple of little tricks, isn't she? - well, yeah, frank. - isn't she? well, sure! i don't understand you. - you like her, don't you? - sure, i like her. and i want to keep liking her. - where's buffalo bill? - inside. jumping buffalo! it's... it's me! have i been up there all the time? do you like it? like it? oh, charlie, i can't believe this. - wait till frank sees it. - yeah. will you go get him, charlie, please? ♪ there's no business ♪ ♪ i like show business ♪ ♪ like no business ♪ ♪ i know ♪ ♪ all made up ♪ ♪ and soon you'll be appearing ♪ ♪ every bit of nervousness is gone ♪ ♪ then the sound that's music ♪ ♪ to your hearing ♪ ♪ to hear them cheering ♪ ♪ when you come on ♪ ♪ there's no people like show people ♪ ♪ they smile when they are low ♪ ♪ how i wish the folks at home ♪ ♪ could only see ♪ ♪ what's come to annie ♪ ♪ how proud they'd be ♪ ♪ getting paid for doing ♪ ♪ what comes naturally ♪ ♪ let's go ♪ ♪ on with the show ♪ i don't know what you're trying to do to me. i've been around here about four years and you finally managed to give me a spot... well, that's what we always had. we.. how about this? oh, frank, look up there. ain't i grown in the last few days? yeah, shot up like a ragweed. you know, i still can't believe. well, don't try too hard, honey because it ain't gonna be there next week. - why? - well, that's show business. i give you a few extra tricks to do but they don't rate a star billing. even i don't get that. some day maybe, honey. but it's gotta be gradual. well, if that's the way you want it. that's the way i want it. you ain't sore, are ya? oh, i'm not sore, honey. you be sure and watch me this afternoon. now don't be nervous. i seen you do that poodle trick a dozen times. oh, i know. but today i'm not gonna... i mean, i'm gonna... well, when you see me out there with the music and everything... well, you'll... you'll... what'll i do? well, you'll start to bust out in a cold sweat and, and then just like in a fairy tale you're gonna be so proud of me that you're gonna ask me to do something and be somebody and i'm gonna do it and be it. honey, i could ask you that right now. you sure look elegant. not now, frank. that ain't the way i planned it. besides, you can't kneel down here. then i'll come back to your dressing tent after i come off. yeah, and then you can take your time and ask me real slow, like. well, i better get in. would you like to touch me for luck? there ain't nothing like that in darke county. ♪ my defenses are down ♪ ♪ she's broken my resistance ♪ ♪ and i don't know where i am ♪ ♪ i went into the fight ♪ ♪ like a lion ♪ ♪ but i came out like a lamb ♪ ♪ my defenses are down ♪ ♪ she's got me where she wants me ♪ ♪ and i can't escape ♪ ♪ no how ♪ ♪ i could speak to my heart ♪ ♪ when it weakens ♪ ♪ but my heart won't listen now ♪ ♪ like a toothless clawless tiger ♪ ♪ like an organ grinder's bear ♪ ♪ like a knight without his armor ♪ ♪ like samson ♪ ♪ without his hair ♪ ♪ my defenses are down ♪ ♪ i might as well surrender ♪ ♪ for the battle can't be won ♪ ♪ but i must confess ♪ ♪ that ll like it ♪ ♪ so there's nothing to be done ♪ ♪ yes i must confess ♪ ♪ that ll like it ♪ ♪ being miserable ♪ ♪ is gonna be fun ♪ ♪ your defenses are down ♪ ♪ she's got you where she wants you ♪ and you can't escape no how ♪ ♪ i could speak to my heart when it weakens ♪ ♪ but your heart won't listen now ♪ ♪ like a toothless clawless tiger ♪ ♪ like an organ grinder's bear ♪ ♪ like a knight without his armor ♪ ♪ like samson ♪ ♪ without his hair ♪ ♪ my defenses are down ♪ ♪ you might as well surrender ♪ ♪ for the battle can't be won ♪ ♪ but ♪ ♪ i must confess ♪ ♪ that i like it ♪ ♪ so there's nothing to be done ♪ ♪ yes you must confess ♪ ♪ that you like it ♪ ♪ being ♪ ♪ miserable ♪ ♪ is gonna ♪ ♪ be ♪ ♪ fun ♪ and now, ladies and gentlemen! for the surprise feature of the buffalo bill wild west show. for the first time in any arena we will witness this afternoon a feat of marksmanship daring and bravery never before attempted in all the world! ladies and gentlemen, we proudly present, miss annie oakley! look. look here, frank, i don't want you to blame annie. she wouldn't, she, she was only trying to surprise you. - she wouldn't cross anybody. - yeah! that's what i thought. i thought she was such a sweet, simple little girl. simple? why, in two weeks i'd wind up being her assistant. look who's talking? i've watched you push her around for months now. handing you your guns. grateful for any crumb the great frank butler would deign to drop! why you're so conceited, if you fell in love with anybody else it'd be a triangle. oh, now. maybe you'd like to hit me, too. charlie here was talking for both of us. oh, frank, i've been looking all over for you. did you see me? were you surprised? it was the surprise of my life. oh, i knew you'd like it. now if you two will get, we wanna be alone. watanya cecilia! watanya cecilia. - get away! - watanya cecilia. you've been chasing me all the way from the big tent! - watanya cecilia. - make him stop saying that! don't worry, now, it's alright. - what does it mean? - it's alright. it's alright, honey. that's a compliment. in the sioux language, "watanya cecilia” means little sure shot. of course, he wants to meet you. miss annie oakley, may i present chief sitting bull. i'm, uh, glad to meet you, mr. bull. thank you kindly. i want you to meet my best friend. - mr. frank butler. - you in show too? in a show? oh, he's a star! - star? - that means he's the best! not. you best. good girl. oh, that's alright, honey. he wants you to be his friend. not friend. i make her my daughter. - what? - oh, that's a great honor. he wants to adopt you. i've called sioux tribe together. - we have big ceremony. - when, chief? - now. - oh, not now. i have to contact the newspapers, send some wires. - that'll take a little time. - now! well, that's what i said, now. to be near daughter... sitting bull break rule. put money in show business. - you all hear that? - now we can go to new york. - madison square garden. - yeah, we'll tour europe. we'll tour the whole world. everything's happening so fast. first, i get me a new papa and... now if you two will get, i could get me a husband. couldn't i, frank? frank? frank. oh, where did he go? well, he probably went out to change. hey, now. wait a minute. wait a minute. buffalo! charlie! help! come. say after me. teeth of many bear. am i an indian yet? not yet. am i an indian yet? not yet. am i an indian yet? come. watanya cecilia. now! ♪ like the seminole ♪ ♪ navajo kickapoo ♪ ♪ like those indians ♪ ♪ i'm an indian too ♪ ♪ a sioux ooh-ooh ♪ ♪ just like rising moon ♪ ♪ falling pants running nose ♪ ♪ like those indians ♪ ♪ i'm an indian too ♪ ♪ a sioux ooh-ooh ♪ ♪ some indian summer's day ♪ ♪ without a care ♪ ♪ i may run away ♪ ♪ with big chief son-of-a-bear ♪ ♪ and i'll have totem poles ♪ ♪ tomahawks, small papoose ♪ ♪ which will go to prove ♪ ♪ i'm an indian too ♪ ♪ a sioux ooh-ooh ♪ ♪ a sioux oh ♪ ♪ i'm an indian i'm an indian ♪ ♪ i'm an honest injun indian ♪ ♪ i'm an indian ♪ ♪ too ♪ ♪ how ooh-ooh ♪ ha! now, i'm an indian. hey, do we carry on that way every time we take in a new member? annie, annie. here's a letter for you, annie. for me? thanks. i ain't never had a letter before. frr... frank! frank. your best friend. papa bull, can you read writing? papa bull writing book. well, can you make this out? "dear, annie. i'm leav..." what's the matter? "i'm leaving tonight to join pawnee bill's show. i am going to do my old act with dolly." but why? "you put over greatest trick i ever saw. you are a smart girl, annie. too smart for me. good luck to you. and goodbye. frank.” oh, what... what does he mean? too smart for... it... it must be some sort of joke. it was gonna, it was gonna be butler and oakley. i was gonna... are you sure you can read? you want him killed? papa bull, we was gonna be married tonight. me and frank. i was gonna be a lady for him and everything. i was trying so hard. you great lady, annie. you best shot in whole world. oh, papa bull. i wish i had never seen a gun. and you kids be good and do everything that miss willoughby tells you to do. where's little jake? jake! jake! jake! jake. oh, little jake. annie, it's awful important that i go with you. honest, it is. oh, i wish you could, little jake. but you gotta take jessie and minnie and nellie back to ohio. but who's gonna teach you to read? i guess i'll have to learn myself. come on. goodbye, kids. take good care of them, miss willoughby... i will, ma'am. - goodbye, annie. - hurry up back, annie! - i will. i will. bye. - don't worry, ms. oakley. take good care of your shooting arm, annie. i will, jake. bye. there it is, annie, time to get aboard. - oh, buffalo. not yet. - what's the matter? - something wrong? - maybe. - maybe what? - well... wouldn't you think people would come down and say goodbye to people when people are going to europe? oh, no, annie, maybe... maybe he couldn't make it. you mean... maybe he didn't want to. i don't care. he don't mean nothing to me. come on, i'm gonna be the biggest hit in the whole world, i'm gonna win every shooting medal ever invented. then mr. frank butler wouldn't be so proud and mighty! - i'll show him! - yes, now, come on. miss oakley, you're a very remarkable young lady. my daughter annie, many fine medals. hey, hello, charlie. great success, wasn't it? oh, great, another success like that and we'll go broke. what are you talking about? these command performances are costing us our shirts. they command, we perform... - no one pays! - yeah, well, now look here. we got enough money to meet our payroll this week? meet it? we're not close enough to even wave at it. oh, no. maybe we'll break even in sweden. they only have one king and he's on a vacation. now, look here, charlie, what would you think about pullin' up stakes here and headin' home? heading home? we got a whole tour ahead of us. now is our chance to make a little money. this is all just been a build up. yeah. well, i wasn't thinking about the money. uh, i didn't hear you. have you, uh, have been watching annie lately? i watch her every show. she's a great little sharpshooter. yes. well, i don't think that's enough for annie. well, we'll build up her act a little. - oh, now, charlie. talk sense. - what do you expect me to say? that she'd be happier back with the great frank butler? i'd rather see her elope with sitting bull. at least she'd always be sure of having a tent over her head. now, you listen to me. frank is alright. well, the important thing is annie's in love with him. well, now that's where you're wrong. annie is as happy as a little lark. here comes your happy little lark, hmm. annie? annie? the... show went swell, didn't it? oh, you were superb, my dear. you knocked 'em out of their seats, honey. do you think i thanked the queen enough? you certainly did. why, you gave a great show! it's, uh, fun traveling around europe like this, isn't it? isn't it? oh, oh, sure. you get to travel all around, meet a lot of interesting people, i love it. well, i'm all packed. where are we headin' now? - well... - north, south? we haven't decided. uh, we were talking about sweden. oh. that's nice. and then of course we could go back to america. we could... uh! buffalo. do you really mean it? would you like that, honey? oh, i love europe but i've been dying to go home. that's what we figured. i get to see the kids again. oh, yes. now wouldn't that be nice? of course, i can't wait till a certain mr. somebody sees this. oh, aren't they cute? yeah, but if we're so rich what are we doing on a cattle boat? we thought it'd be nice to keep the animals company. annie, our european tour was an artistic success. he means we're broke. oh, you don't mean to tell me the king of italy and the kaiser couldn't dig up a buck and a half? my dear child, king's don't handle money. same as us. i'll give it to you briefly. we had a choice of traveling on this boat or getting our feet very wet. shut up! it cost a lot of money to travel a big troupe up and down europe. why, sure, you remember what happened in paris when the indians discovered french pastry. sixty-two thousand chocolate eclairs! sixty-two thousand five hundred. now, now, you see that? that cost a heap of money. but, papa bull, what happened to your heap? government put papa bull on small allowance. - 32.50 a week. - but why? because in the eight months that he's been with us he's drawn $300,000. and he hasn't got anything to show for it except an opera hat and a shoe box full of our ious. that's show business. i'll give it to you straight, annie. i don't think we can keep the show up. it cost too much money! but you can't break up the show. i go back to reservation. reservation very quiet after show business. what's gonna happen to you, buffalo bill? who me? oh, i'll be alright. dime museums, side shows. everything is gonna be alright, honey. only just now we gotta raise a little bit of cash. hey! let's turn this into a pirate ship. - oh. - sitting bull hungry. yes, buffalo bill hungry too. i'd settle right now for... i'd settle right... annie, do you think you can shoot one of those? which one do you want and where you want him? uh, get the one with the meat on him. now you see? everything finally turns out alright. take this down to the chef. - what for? - a seagull sandwich. well, i guess i'll mosey on back to my stall. time to milk my roommate. annie, annie. come here to me. i want you to meet a friend of mine. there she is. board! heaving to the boarding instructions. come aboard by port bow. hey, bill, annie. we got a visitor. who is it? it looks like, uh, frank butler. well, well, so it does. well come on, annie. take a look. i don't wanna look. and if he's comin' on this boat, i'm leaving. - no, no, no, annie. - stay. talk. maybe i will. sure. i'll talk to him. i'll say, "what are you doing here "you big swollen-headed stiff? get!" then he'll say, "i just come down to meet ya, honey." and i'll say, "i don't wanna get met by you. get away from me. take your hands off me. i hate ya!” then he'll say, "now, honey." and then i'll say, "don't honey me! "you thought i double-crossed ya. you thought i tried to show you up. when you did find out i only done the trick just so you'd love me. why didn't you love me? why did you leave? why didn't you write?" then he'll say, "'cause i... 'cause i was ashamed. besides, not writin' don't mean somebody don't love somebody." then i'll say, "well, anyways... you could have writ." and then he'll say... "annie, i've been eating my heart out for you. i can't work, i can't sleep.” then, of course, then if he says that... i guess i'll just have to say... "i ain't slept much too." then by rights, he ought to say, "annie, we both just gotta get some sleep! i loves you so!” then i don't know hows i'll stop myself from sayin'... "i loves you too." frank! frank! - you ain't frank! - well, nobody said i was. then why'd you come out here and pretend and get me to kiss you and all? - he didn't do anything, baby. - oh, yes, he did. he gave me an appetite i didn't wanna get! oh, no, annie. who are you, son? well, i'm workin' over at madison square garden. - i'm in the pawnee bill show. - pawnee bill... - how? - how! - no, no, how's business? - oh, we're packin' 'em in. - they're mostly society ladies. - society ladies? sure, that frank butler he's, uh, catnip for those debutantes. debutantes, what's that? ladies with long white gloves, dear. them, uh, long white gloves you're talkin' about, is there any special pair he likes? we can't keep track of him. colonel, sir... i have a letter here from pawnee bill to you. hmm. thank you, son. we were expecting you in on the, uh, on the great eastern. well, of course, i... i don't like to be separated from my cattle. i... charlie, show the gentleman below. uh, could i interest you in a tub of nice, fresh milk? - let me read it. - well, certainly. "dear old pal. welcome home, you millionaires. we want to give you all a big reception at the hotel brrr..." no, no, no. honey, brevoort. i can read, lately. "the hotel bre-e-voort. tomorrow night, the town's dying to meet you. frank's bringing all his society friends." alright, turn over. "please tell my messenger that you will come. so we can start to ice the champaginee.” champagne. "ice the champagne. your old pal, pawnee bill." champagne at the brevoort, why that old tenderfoot must be filthy rich! good! pawnee bill, possible sucker. - what are you talking about? - buffalo bill, poor, but good. pawnee bill, bad, but rich. put together, make good and rich. you know, he may have something there. we... we could merge, you know. we've got the prestige and he's got the money. we could combine our shows. we... annie, how would you like that? oh, buffalo bill. if the two shows could merge me and frank would just have to work together every day and then, pretty soon maybe him and me could do some mergin'. yes. well, i'd better go find that messenger. now, you'll be with your friend frank. oh, papa bull, he'll make you a wonderful son-in-law. maybe, maybe he's gone and fallen in love with one of those pink and white ladies he's always talkin' about. when you fall in love with frank? first time i seen him. he took to me, right away. he sung me a love song. he just spit his heart right out at me. ♪ the girl that i marry ♪ ♪ will have to be ♪ ♪ as soft and as pink ♪ ♪ as a nursery ♪ ♪ the girl ♪ ♪ i call my own ♪ ♪ will wear satins ♪ ♪ and laces ♪ ♪ and smell of cologne ♪ i her nails ♪ ♪ will be polished ♪ ♪ and in her hair ♪ ♪ she'll wear ♪ ♪ a gardenia ♪ ♪ he'll be there ♪ ♪ instead of flittin' ♪ ♪ he'll be sittin' ♪ ♪ next to her ♪ ♪ and she'll purr ♪ ♪ like a kitten ♪ ♪ a doll ♪ ♪ he can carry ♪ ♪ the girl ♪ ♪ that he marries... ♪ i'm giving a weekend party at my estate. - oh, that's fine, that's fine. - i'll be expecting you. well, i'm sorry, ma'am, but i don't think i could leave my horses. - horses? - uh, uh, excuse me. - frank, don't forget our dance. - oh, i won't. oh, isn't this our dance? i'm sorry but, uh, i promised this one to pawnee bill. - excuse me. - will you excuse us, please? oh, frank, isn't it a lovely party? yeah. - it is a nice party, isn't it? - if you like witches. what's the idea sending that faded gibson girl to fetch me? and you picked the night when i'm half out of my mind worrying if annie will even talk to me. well, i'll have to tell you. we're at the end of our line, we owe everybody. i don't understand it, we're pulling in in a fortune, down at the garden. yeah, with the sheriff at the door of the box office pulling it out again. well, if we're so broke, what are you givin' this big party for buffalo bill for? it's an investment, i'm trying to promote a partnership. you mean, put the two shows together? yes. hey, that's wonderful. then she'd have to talk to me. i knew i could count on you. colonel william f. cody. - oh! - where are you goin'? i... i got a surprise for her. i'll be right back. mr. charles davenport and their company. well, well. my old pal, bill! pawnee bill, my old pal. what a reunion! oh, you're a sight for sore eyes. you know, you look wonderful? - i look wonderful? - yes! i look terrible. you look wonderful. doesn't he, charlie? he never looked this good to me. - tell me, where's annie? - oh, she's on her way. i'm anxious to see her and let's have a drink, eh? - well, bill, here's to you. - no, no, no, here's to you. - oh, no. to you. - no, no, i insist. - here's to you. - let's drink to me! hm? no. later. i read about your european tour. biggest show they ever seen over there. - oh, we, uh, we got by. - uh-huh. i hear you're doing fine at the garden. oh, well, you know, making a living. um, let's have another drink. the real stuff is in there. yeah! mighty nice of you to give us this fine party. oh, nothin' at all. why, we are buddies, aren't we? as a matter of fact, we cut off our european tour so annie could be with frank. is that so? well, i wonder how we could manage that. you know, i've been wondering the same thing. uh, let me propose a toast. to the two greatest showmen in america. - oh, oh, please. - pawnee bill and buffalo bill. what a combination. yes. - yeah. - yeah. we could merge the shows and then annie and frank could be together. oh, now, now, why didn't i think of that? i'm sure this calls for a real celebration. let me fill 'em up again for you. - bill, darling. - beat it! well... - well... - there we are. here's to the new buffalo bill pawnee bill wild west show. hold on there. no, sir, here's to the new pawnee bill buffalo bill wild west show. oh, no, you come first, you come first. i bet they're going to serve dove for dinner. oh, this is a night i will always remember. uh, me too, bb. - now, if we had $100,000... - if we only had a $100,000... a hundred thousand what? i was gonna say, if we had $100,000 we could pay off our debts. - what were you going to say? - the same thing. - why, you dirty crook! - what do you mean me? miss annie oakley. chief sitting bull. - do you see him yet? - he'll be here. miss oakley, enchanted. you're a friend of frank butler's, ain't you? - how'd you know? - white gloves. - charmed. - enchanted. - enchanted. - charmed. - oh, charmed. - oh, enchanted. - enchanted. - oh, charmed. - delighted. - oh, no. you either got to be charmed or enchanted. may i get you some chicken salad? you sure can. i don't know what's ailin' me lately but i'm always hungry. - i wonder what that's from. - from not eatin'. all those medals, i read they were worth $100,000. oh, what is that big one for? for shooting the apple off of the crown prince's head. and-and this little one? for shootin' the worm out of the apple. isn't she heavenly? oh, miss oakley, won't you shoot something for us? - oh, yes. - please do. oh, if only i had brung my gun, i'd love to. i'd love to shoot all of you. pawnee bill! waiter, drop that tray and throw the guests of honor out! what's the matter, ain't we mergin'? the merger's off. alright, come on, everybody. what, what? they haven't got as much money as we haven't got. oh, papa bull, you gotta do somethin'! wait! two shows must go together. annie want frank, annie get frank. - papa bull find money. - where? me know paleface with many diamonds, much gold. who? - you. - me? oh, but i can't sell my medals. no sell medals, no money for merger. - no merger, nobody merge. - oh, but we gotta merge! there's too many white gloves around here. i'll tell you what i'll do. if i can keep 'em until frank sees 'em you can have 'em. well, my old partner! oh, it'll be great to be working together again, bill. and, waiter, champagne for all the guests of honor. come on, come on, everybody. annie, you realize you just gave up your whole bankroll. ah, shucks. i don't care. i've got what i had when i started. now, don't fret, charlie. i'mma doing fine ♪ taking stock of what i have ♪ ♪ and what i haven't ♪ ♪ what do i find ♪ ♪ the things i've got ♪ ♪ will keep me satisfied ♪ ♪ checking up on what i have ♪ ♪ and what i haven't ♪ ♪ what do i find? ♪ ♪ a healthy balance ♪ ♪ on the credit side ♪ ♪ got no diamond got no pearl ♪ ♪ still i think i'm a lucky girl ♪ ♪ i've got the sun in the morning ♪ ♪ and the moon at night ♪ ♪ got no mansion got no yacht ♪ ♪ still i'm happy with what i've got ♪ ♪ i've got the sun in the morning ♪ ♪ and the moon at night ♪ ♪ sunshine gives me a lucky day ♪ ♪ moonshine gives me the milky way ♪ ♪ got no checkbooks got no banks ♪ ♪ still i'd like to express my thanks ♪ ♪ i've got the sun in the morning ♪ ♪ and the moon at night ♪ ♪ and with the sun in the morning ♪ ♪ and the moon in the evening ♪ ♪ i'm alright ♪ ♪ got no butler got no maid ♪ ♪ still we think you've been overpaid ♪ ♪ i've got the sun in the morning ♪ ♪ and the moon at night ♪ ♪ she got the sun in the morning ♪ ♪ and the moon at night ♪ ♪ got no silver got no gold ♪ ♪ what you got can't be bought or sold ♪ ♪ i've got the sun in the morning ♪ ♪ and the moon at night ♪ ♪ she got the sun in the morning ♪ ♪ and the moon at night ♪ ♪ sunshine gives me a lucky day ♪ ♪ moonshine gives me the milky way ♪ ♪ got no diamond got no pearl ♪ ♪ still miss annie's a lucky girl ♪ ♪ i've got the sun in the morning ♪ ♪ sun in the morning ♪ ♪ moon in the evening ♪ ♪ sun in the morning ♪ ♪ and the moon in the evening ♪ ♪ and i'm feeling ♪ ♪ alright ♪ what's the matter? frank. oh, don't move or i'll fall. i ain't ever movin' again. what you got spilled on you? eau de cologne water. it's powerful, ain't it? oh, frank, look, look. polish! - oh, you look wonderful. - oh, do i? do i... do i dazzle you? yeah, i couldn't have stood it much longer. am i... am i drivin' you crazy? plumb. - i love you, annie. - oh, i love you back. oh, why didn't you write to me? well, i figured you'd be all tied up with them european counts and dukes. i've been hearin' about your collection of white gloves. - i missed you every minute. - keep talkin'. didn't like livin' without you. keep talkin'. you're everybody in the world, annie. - keep talkin'. - i don't wanna talk. i just wanna hold you like this. annie? annie? annie? annie! annie, i want you to have somethin'. oh, frank! i can't take 'em. honest i can't! oh, go on, honey. a little jewelry will look good with that ring. go on. - pin 'em on. - uh, where? well, i got a little piece of space left between... france and switzerland. how come you got that vacant lot there? oh, i didn't wear 'em all. well, what you waitin' for? no, you don't want these. haven't got any stones in 'em. oh! i got all the stones i want. go ahead, frank. no, these are too plain for you. they just got writin' on the back. "to frank butler, the champion sharpshooter of the world." of what world? the old world or the new world? the whole world! i got all these that says you ain't! they don't prove anything! i ain't been beat yet! if you are referrin' to that time back in cincinnati that was just beginner's luck. - what? - you heard me! i thought maybe that nonsense had been knocked out of you! why, it couldn't happen again in a million years! oh, no? it's going to happen again tomorrow! - charlie! charlie! - yes, yes? find someplace where we can have ourselves a match. - who? - me and old potshot here! oh, a love match. ah, there ain't no love in a shootin' woman. what a wife she'd make! instead of tendin' a house, she'd be tending her guns. instead of stayin' home sewin', she'd be out hitting targets. - yeah, you'd be missin' 'em! - wait a minute, wait a minute. that's not the right spirit to start working together. - we're not workin' together! - not now or ever! - cannot stop merger. - i just did! and get us a range! that dress sure had me fooled. well, i thought you was gettin' to be a lady. it's gonna be a pleasure to give you a lesson in marksmanship. you couldn't give me a lesson in long-distance spittin'! ♪ anything you can do i can do better ♪ ♪ i can do anything better than you ♪ - no, you can't. - yes, i can. no you can't. ♪ yes i can yes i can ♪ ♪ anything you can be i can be greater ♪ ♪ sooner or later i'm greater than you ♪ - no, you're not. - yes, i am. - no, you're not! - yes, i am. no, you're not! ♪ yes i am yes i am ♪ ♪ i can shoot a partridge with a single cartridge ♪ ♪ i can get a sparrow with a bow and arrow ♪ ♪ i can live on bread and cheese ♪ - and only on that? - yes. so can a rat. ♪ any note you can reach i can go higher ♪ ♪ i can sing anything higher than you ♪ ♪ no, you can't ♪ ♪ yes, i can ♪ ♪ no you can't ♪ ♪ yes i can ♪ ♪ no you can't ♪ ♪ yes i can ♪ ♪ anything you can buy i can buy cheaper ♪ ♪ i can buy anything cheaper than you - 50 cents? - 40 cents. - 30 cents. - 20 cents. ah, you can't. ♪ yes i can yes i can ♪ ♪ anything you can say i can say softer ♪ ♪ i can say anything softer than you ♪ - no, you can't. - yes, i can. ♪ yes i can ♪ ♪ i can drink my liquor faster than a flicker ♪ ♪ i can drink it quicker and get even sicker ♪ ♪ i can open any safe ♪ - without gettin' caught? - sure. that's what i thought, ya crook. ♪ any note you can hold i can hold longer ♪ ♪ i can hold any note longer than you ♪ - no, you can't. - yes, i can. - no, you can't. - yes, i can! - no, you can't. - yes, i can. ♪ no you can't ♪ ♪ yes ♪ ♪ i can ♪ ♪ yes you can ♪ ♪ anything you can wear i can wear better ♪ ♪ in what you wear i'd look better than you ♪ - in my coat? - in your vest. - in my shoes. - in your hat! no, you can't! ♪ yes i can yes i can ♪ ♪ anything you can say i can say faster ♪ ♪ i can say anything faster than you ♪ - no, you can't. - yes, i can. ♪ i can jump a hurdle ♪ ♪ i can wear a girdle ♪ ♪ i can knit a sweater ♪ ♪ i could fill it better ♪ ♪ i can do most anything ♪ - can you bake a pie? - no. neither can i. ♪ any note you can sing i can sing sweeter ♪ ♪ i can sing anything sweeter than you ♪ ♪ no you can't ♪ ♪ yes i can ♪ ♪ no you can't ♪ ♪ yes i can ♪ ♪ no you can't ♪ ♪ yes i can ♪ ♪ no you can't ♪ ♪ yes i can ♪ ♪ no you can't can't can't ♪ ♪ yes i can can can ♪ ♪ no you can't ♪ ♪ yes i can ♪ ladies and gentlemen! you are about to witness a contest of marksmanship for the championship of the world. between miss annie oakley... and mr. frank butler! straight shooting, using clay targets the best out of 100 shots five shots at a time. - charlie? - hmm? ooh, this one fixed. oh, i hope you know what you're doing. annie's not gonna like losing this match. - she like. - hmm? annie win match, lose frank. annie lose match, win frank. we make peace medicine. well, is that satisfactory? unless he'd like a handicap. let's get started. i've got a date in town with a lady. and i've only got a half hour to beat her. - now, frank... - beat me? you wouldn't wanna make a bet on that, would ya? - anytime! - you got it! charlie, give me that case with the medals. oh, no, wait now. let's not get hasty. we.. i'm bettin' all these medals against those three tin badges of yours! annie, you can't bet away $100,000. that's our whole bankroll. you don't think i'm gonna lose, do ya? - sure. i mean, i mean, no! - here they are. oh, here, let me hold the stakes, huh? ah, you and your peace medicine. you have heard the rules of the contest. - are you ready? - ready. - ready? - ready. miss oakley. pull! miss! pull! miss! charlie, get me another gun. yeah, yeah. come on, come on! what's the matter? nothing, nothing, nothing. i was just trying to make a little war medicine. watch this one, mr. frank butler! pull! miss! i don't know what's the matter with me. ah, now, now. steady, annie. steady. charlie, give me another gun! here, honey, try mine for luck. - did you call me honey? - sure i did. goon. try it. pull! pull! now, i'm gonna make up what i lost. well, of course, you were just givin' me a handicap. well, sure. pull! - pull! - hit. - pull! - hit. - pull! - hit. the great miss oakley. here. i don't need any luck from you! - oh, yes, you do! - no, i don't. give me another gun, charlie. you have better luck with this one. papa bull, i don't know what's the matter with me. you do fine. keep missing, you win. - be second best, annie. - huh? you tell me can't get man with gun, remember? - yeah. - you get man with this gun. now, why didn't i think of that? give me that gun, papa bull! pull! miss! pull! miss. i can't, i can't! i quit. i concede this match to mr. frank butler, the greatest sharpshooter in the world. annie, you don't know what you're doin'. - oh, yes i do. - ow! - pardon me! - it just ain't no use. i-i ain't the champion anymore. i'm only second best. ain't that right, papa bull? that's right, little sure shot. i don't know what's gonna happen to me. i guess i'll have to go back to darke county. well, uh, go on! he won the match, charlie. give him the medals. charlie! give him those medals. - annie, these belong to you. - no. you won 'em. you keep 'em. we're gonna be partners. partners? oh, frank! butler and oakley? in alphabetical order. ♪ there's no business like show business ♪ ♪ like no business i know ♪ ♪ everything about it is appealing ♪ ♪ everything the traffic will allow ♪ ♪ nowhere could you get that happy feeling ♪ ♪ when you are stealing that extra bow ♪ ♪ there's no people like show people ♪ ♪ they smile when they are low ♪ ♪ even with a turkey that you know will fold ♪ ♪ you may be stranded out in the cold ♪ ♪ still you wouldn't change it for a sack of gold ♪ let's go on with the show ♪ ♪ let's go on ♪ ♪ with the show ♪