- weinkoop, where is she? - in this car, sir. - has she recovered consciousness? - not yet. - this is the company doctor. - follow me. - come on. five minutes out of port johnson she went into the ladies' room. - must've finished off a pint. - the telegram said she fell. rolled off the seat like a sack of flour. - well? - she's dead drunk. my report can say something else, but that's what it is. belongs in a hospital. anything to get her off company property. come on, doc. have her taken to the jefferson hospital. you go with her. be sure you make it straight we're not taking any responsibility. we're doing this only as a courtesy to her husband. put her in a private room under another name. keep her there until i get sam eaton to come take her home. very well, mr jones. there's more to running a railroad than just laying down some tracks. - looking for quail, frolick, as usual? - as usual. you won't find any around here. they're all down on market street. - nobody left on that train? - no, just the crew. i wonder if... oh, no. not martha eaton. see you later. this is dd jones. i want you to put in a long-distance call to port johnson. to mr samuel eaton. that's right, eaton iron and steel. will you be home for dinner, mr eaton, if anyone should ask? if you mean by "anyone" mrs eaton, say so, nellie... or forever hold your peace. well, what with mr. alfred coming home from the war today. you're sure it's today, are you? maybe you even know what time he's coming. or how he's coming. no reason a servant shouldn't know more than his own family. those eggs were too hard again today, nellie. - when i say soft-boiled, i mean soft-boiled. - yes, mr eaton. i may be home. then again, i may not. - and now i'm off. goodbye, nellie. - goodbye, sir. hello. eaton residence. oh, i'm sorry. he just left. you should be able to reach him at the mill in about 10 minutes. you're welcome. goodbye. mrs eaton got out of the house mighty early this morning, george. - yes, sir. - philadelphia again? i didn't wait to see which train she took, sir. didn't she say anything? we were too busy talking about your boy coming home safe from the navy to talk about unimportant matters. in other words, mrs eaton's whereabouts are too unimportant for me to have any interest in them. there's nothing about mrs eaton that's unimportant. not to me, sir. are you trying to say something to me, george? well, sir, i made me a promise the day your son went away. "george fry", i said, 'the day alfred comes home from this war, you'll say some things that's been wanting to be said." took a lot for granted, didn't you? i knew he was coming back. i prayed for him. prayed? you're no more of a praying man than i am. if it was billy gone to war instead of alfred, maybe you'd have learned to pray, mr eaton. is that what you promised yourself to say? a father can feel badly over a son dead 13 years without ignoring the other one. - don't preach to me, george. - no, sir. - maybe you'd better be taking the day off. i'll accept the day's holiday, sir, but after that, i don't want to work for you anymore. no, i shouldn't think you would. - i'll have your check ready for you tomorrow morning. - yes, sir. you might as well stop in front of the saloon, when we get there and get out. that's where you'll be going anyway, i'm sure. here's to samuel eaton, president of eaton iron and steel, who, after 20-some odd years of being dirty, rotten mean to his boy alfred has just been fired. i said fired, noony, by his own chauffeur. i'll drink to that. and here's to alfred eaton, who never did anything wrong in his whole life, except be the son who didn't die of spinal meningitis, when he was a kid. and now i hope he'll be forgiven for living through the war. you know where north hill road is? - hey, jake. got a passenger for out of town. - good. - don't you want to help me with my bags? - who says so? - how much do i owe you? - 3 dollars. - oh, yeah? who says so? - i said so. 3 dollars. - wait here while i go in and telephone. - telephone who? the taxi company to find out when they raised their prices. - 2 dollars. - here's one dollar. now, beat it before i pull you out of that cab and bust your nose for you. - well, big man. mr. alfred. hello, josephine. hello, nellie. - stop, nellie, for the lord's sake. - i can't help it. well, you all look fine. - come on, now. turn around, josephine. - i will not. you don't have to. i can see it's getting bigger. - it is not. - she don't have her corset on. shut your mouth, for the lord's sake. i brought you two old crows some presents from london. you didn't have to spend your money on us. - we're just thankful you're home. - i'll bet you are, too. you didn't tell a soul what time you were coming. i didn't want to give anybody a chance not to meet me. we aren't really ready for you what with the mister and missis away. - away? tonight i have only lamb chops, but i did make apple pie. where did they go? the missis went away this morning. i don't know where. the mister called this afternoon. it sounded like long distance. he said, "don't wait with dinner." we fixed for miss trimingham early. miss trimingham? yes. come on, josephine. help me with these bags. you'll find your old room, just exactly the way you left it. nellie, who's miss trimingham? - she's your mother's trained nurse. - trained nurse? for the drinking, mr. alfred. alfred. oh, my alfred! mother, you all right? oh, forgive me. how horrible. i'm so excited and awkward. - oh, but you're home. - yes, mother. oh, darling, don't. don't look at me. i didn't want you to see me like this. i'm so tired, and i'm not feeling well. couldn't we save everything for tomorrow, when i'll be at my best? we'll make believe there was no tonight and that you came home tomorrow and we'll say all our hellos as they should be. - sure, mother. here comes your father. now make allowances. he's not at his best. here we are, sam, and look who's with me. - my boy. home at last. - hello, father. hello, father? is that all after all this time? - no. there's a lot more. - yes, i should think there would be. - now what've you done to yourself? - she just tripped and fell. - doesn't he look wonderful? - yes. let's get in the house. now, sam, what we've decided is we're not going to say our hellos tonight. we're all much too tired and tomorrow we'll all be fresh as a daisy. how was the war? ok, i guess. we won it. oh, have you met my son? alfred, this is miss trimingham. - how do you do? - welcome home. up we go. cool sheets and heavenly rest. good night, alfred. sleep as late as you like and remember, you're coming home tomorrow. tonight never even happened. the house looks good. yeah. your mother touched it up a bit here and there. - you've put on a couple ofpounds. - soft living in the navy. i suppose you're sleepy. i was up at quarter to 6:oo this morning. - not a very good time to talk now anyway, is it? no, i guess it isn't. i guess i'll go upstairs, too. if it's all right with you. - father? - yeah? nothing. good night. good night. she doesn't need you now. well, mr. alfred, how does it feel to be home again and seeing your mother and father? things don't change, nellie. they just get more so. we got ginger ale, seltzer, and no liquor. where's the liquor? your father keeps it under lock and key. - good night, mr. alfred. - good night. even the servants in your own house, know about you. i'm tired. i'm sick. leave me alone. i'll leave you alone when you tell me everything i want to know. - who else saw you together? - nobody else. not a soul. - you were in restaurants together. - never. wallowing in filth together! - and i want to know where every damn place! - no. - well, you're going to tell me. - oh no, sam, not tonight. please. - where else did you meet him? - nowhere else. only his house. you're lying to me. you were with him in a hotel room. all right. but only once. you could stay with him and me the same night? yes! did you think you're any better, than one of those sluts on river street? i'm not proud of myself. not proud of herself, she says. - how can you look at your own son? - i can't. if that egotistical little father of yours was alive to know about this... yourson. your father. your heroes. i have no heroes, only some people i love. - you were my hero. - shut up! and you drove me to it. you turned your back on me just like you did on alfred. i needed love wherever i could find it. love! you're a pig. i can't stand the sight of you. mr eaton. his name is charles frolick. - he's a terrible, evil man. - how long has it been going on? about a year. she's been trying not to see him, but he won't let her. she can't help herself. frolick? number 22 walnut street, philadelphia. - yes, what is it? - are you charles frolick? i am. what kind of an hour of the night... - who the devil are you? - charlie. what do you think you're doing here? charlie! my name is alfred eaton. alfred eaton. you got that? now, you go near my mother again, i'll kill you. charlie? what's the big idea ofkeeping me... charlie! - mr. alfred down yet? - he's having breakfast, sir. there you are, boy. - watch those eggs, nellie. - yes, mr eaton. well, how did it feel sleeping in your own bed? you mother wanted to buy a new mattress, but i said no. i slept very well. thank you. well, i didn't. it's not as easy as it used to be. still, i guess i'm all right for a man of 57, considering the way i worked my tail off during the war. i might even get a chance to rest. we all are, in our business. big contracts canceled months ago and now those darn fool workers are going to strike. let them. there'll be nothing, but gas in their kids' bellies by the time they come back. pay them exactly what you want. what do you care? i care because i'm against anybody going on strike against me. you'll know what i feel, when you come into the business with me. - well, i suppose you're thinking of taking it easy. - not exactly. maybe traveling a bit, seeing something of the country before settling down here. we got to start thinking of a club in philadelphia for you. i doubt i'll be joining a club, but if i do, it'll probably be in new york. new york? what for? i expect to be spending some time there. i thought you were going to travel. you said i was going to travel. i didn't. my home base will be in new york. - the hell it will. - the hell it won't! i guess i don't feel like having any breakfast. tell them in the kitchen i'm not staying. don't you want to hear what my plans are? i'm in no hurry to. i can see you won't do what i'd hoped and you haven't discussed it with me. i'd be glad to discuss it. you want to tell me to go to the devil and take the mill with me. you've been wanting to do that all your life. all i wanted to do is to be friends with you. that's what you want, friendship? i haven't got a friend for every 10 years i've lived. i hoped for that, too. first, you'll have to show me you're a man i'd want to be friends with. the job at the mill was yours. i hoped the friendship would come out of that. would come out of what, being your errand boy? you never asked me what i wanted to do. now i'm supposed to go into the mill to please you. you'd cripple me for life. you don't think i can make it on my own. you're not big enough to even walk in my shadow and you never will be. alfred. so much shouting so early in the day with the servants around, too. i guess we're not a very respectable family, are we? - you must give him time. - for what? he'll never change. he might get used to your ways. i don't think i have that much time. neither has he. there's a lot of sadness and sweetness in you, alfred, but you can be very cruel and cold sometimes. oh nice, kind alfred. did i just say something awful? - i'm sorry. - nothing for you to be sorry about. yes, i did. what's happened to me? i used to be nice and i don't even remember what made me change. don't be hard on yourself. i know a lot more than you think i do. you're still my mother. what do you know? everything. oh, god. put your arms around me, alfred. - do you still like me a little? - i love you, mother. even when i'm like this? - you're leaving us, aren't you, alfred? - yes. where are you going? i may stay with lex porter in new york for a while. i suppose you'll see the thorntons. fritz thornton is throwing a party for lex tonight in southampton. the porters and the thorntons are like a second family to you, but just remember, they're not. don't get too independent. don't cut off your own flesh and blood. anybody can disappoint you, if you catch them at the wrong time and that includes you, too, alfred. i know i'm not what you think your mother ought to be. i'm sorry if it embarrasses you and i'm not going to make any excuses. don't worry. that's not why i'm leaving. i could feel it last night your very first look at me down in the driveway. what am i? ahopeless drunkard? they'd rather have me that than the other thing an unfaithful wife. apig, he called me. well, the drinking makes a good cover-up for a lot of things. goodbye now, mother. "it wouldn't have happened if she hadn't been a drinker." "martha eaton wouldn't do such things, if she didn't like gin and whiskey so much." well, little do they know. little does anybody know. - may i have this dance? - oh, why, certainly. - will you pardon me just a moment? - sure. thank you. are you looking for me? - i am if yourname is lex porter. - my name is clemmieshreve, but i'll change it if you'll stop looking further. just how far am i allowed to look? you're fresh. - i like you. sam? - no, alfred. are you going to make a pass at me? you believe in long courtships, don't you? - who's got time? i'm crowding 19. - what, years or guys? nasty. come on. let's dance and crowd each other. i better go fill my wooden leg. you mean it's all over between us? well, these things don't last forever. waiter, tell me where i can find mr porter. he went into the den a few minutes ago, sir. - excuse me. - hey, wait a minute. - alfred, when did you get here? - couple of minutes ago. come in. join us. alfred eaton, sage rimmington. - sorry. - so am i. sage, this is the rover boy, i went through princeton and the navy with. who knows what lies ahead? darling, if you'll excuse me... i think i'll put on something more comfortable. like my husband. bye, sweetie. - i like that. - oh, she's very inventive. - how was it, boy? - how was what? - getting home. - great. yeah, me, too. i snapped out of it, though. good booze, bad women. it never fails to work. how did things go in the money department? our project. did you raise the dough? oh, your old man. well, i'll have another little talk with uncle fritz. i'll just charm him into putting up the whole 500,000. i don't want that. i know you don't, sport, but have we got any choice? i don't mean to sound ungrateful, but let's wait till i can swing my own end. i'm not going into any business venture, where i carry as much weight as a poor relative. i understand. it doesn't mean that much to me. it does to me. boy, you did have a rough time at home, didn't you? we got to get you out of there. - i've already taken care of that. - really? - what are your plans? - i don't know. i was sort of, thinking about that bachelor apartment you were going to set up in gramercy park. hey, now you're talking. play it by ear for a while. well, you can use your ear. i got better ideas. let's start right now. now, would you look at this? 200 beautiful long island virgins. markel's dance music, buckets of champagne... and i'm the guest of honor. now, how can i lose? unless i start getting drunk and taking those little girls upstairs. - i met something called clemmie. - oh, clemmieshreve. now, i'm saving that for a rainy night. there he is uncle fritz. look who's here. - i'm so glad to see you. - mr thornton, how are you? this party wouldn't be complete without you. champagne for three. - have they been treating you properly here? - no complaints. i hope you'll stay with us for a good long visit. - i may take you up on that. - i hoped for this moment. the three of us together like this as i hoped for victory. god bless you. - thought i might as well start at the top. - did you? pretty close to it. thanks for the compliment. who are you? alfred eaton. that wouldn't mean anything to you. what's your name? - mary st. john. - that's a nice, respectable name. well, of course it's respectable. that's a silly thing to say. am i the first to call it respectable? you're the first who ever raised the question. then i'm glad i called it respectable instead of the opposite. if you're trying to annoy me, you're succeeding. my manners are rusty. you're the first girl i've danced with for a long time. why didn't you bestow that honor on someone inside instead of here on the terrace? i rather like the view from the terrace. then i saw you and i liked the view even more. you touch me deeply. but not in the right places. well, that was reasonably disagreeable. yes, and it was so easy. would you like to go cry or something? no, but i wouldn't mind, if you faded away into the sunset. here comes the bird dog, to retrieve you. what's his name? - jim roper., - oh, grim jim roper? no. dr roper. he's a psychiatrist. oh, sorry. i hope you get well very soon. good night, mr eaton. good night, miss st. john. all yours, doctor. i know that. oh, i don't know about these girls. i heard they were like minks during the war. - how are you doing? - you tell me. who's mary st. john? her old man's with the dupont corporation down in wilmington. - fancy pedigree. - papers on both sides. - hey, waiter. you can forget about her. - why? - you want one? - no. she's secretly engaged to the guy she's with, the doctor, jim roper. i don't think he's rich enough for her, but if it isn't him it'll be somebody else who is. if you're not thinking about marrying her, you can forget about anything else. she's really saving it. - want to make a little bet? - oh, wake up, sport. you haven't got the necessary qualifications. well, there are all kinds of qualifications. and straight ahead you'll notice the famous whitney estate. oh, and there to the right is the estate of james duncan machardie. you notice the smoke rising from the chimney? in all probability mr machardie is burning money. stop hiding behind the glasses. i'm not hiding. you always manage to put something between us like jim roper, or your friend sage rimmington, or the net of a tennis court. what are you afraid of? - let's row back to shore shall we? - see what i mean? i don't know why you bother talking to me. every time you do, you get sarcastic and we end up fighting. now, if you don't approve of me, just leave me alone. i'm sure i won't perish from unhappiness. this is the first time we've been alone. - how long are you going to be here? -a month or so. then back to wilmington? i used to live very close to there port johnson, pennsylvania. i thought you lived in new york, in gramercy park, with lex and all the stray girls you could lay your hands on or so they tell me. i think we'd better go back. - you don't mean that. - yes, i do mean that. i knew you would kiss me today, but i didn't know i'd kiss you back. it won't happen again so don't try to get me alone somewhere. - you'd like that. - stop it. - why? - 'cause i'm engaged to jim roper. - you going to marry him? - well, i'm engaged to him. but you didn't say you were going to marry him. are you going to row me back to shore or am i going to have to swim back? swim. hello, alfred. - who is it, mary? - it's just a friend, mother. well, who is it, mary? i think you better come in. mother, this is alfred eaton. my mother. - how do you do? - mr eaton. and my father. daddy, alfred eaton. pleased to meet you, sir. i don't believe we've seen you before. - are you from these parts? - port johnson, pennsylvania. oh, yes. the steel mill. so, you're that eaton. what do you think of the strike? i'm not in the mill, but my father doesn't like it. i shouldn't think he would. well, what brings you to wilmington at this awkward hour? i was just duck hunting on my way to new york. thought i'd say hello to mary. - how was the shooting? - got a few tail feathers. how is jim? - jim? - yes. - you mean jim roper? - yes. i assume you're close friends. not exactly. oh, well, now, not a friend ofjim's. - isn't that a bit strange? - no, mother. jim and i met alfred at the same time. - then he's really a friend of yours, more than jim's. - that's right. mr. eaton, you're not in the mill. what do you do? i mean, besides duck hunting in the middle of the week. actually, i've got some exciting business plans. - i'm not allowed to disclose them now. - i see. well, i guess i better be going. my husband will see you to the door. - no, i will. - good night, sir. - good night. - good night, mrs st. john. - goodbye, mr eaton. your mother and father are sort of distant. now, what do you mean by that? you know what i mean. you never did believe i was going to marry jim, did you? i wrote him a letter and i broke up with him. why didn't you tell me? i don't know. i didn't tell anybody. alfred? are you going to do something and be somebody? - for you? - yes. - settle down? - yes. with you? do you love me? oh, i want you. more than anything in the whole world. mary? you're never going to want anybody else as long as you live. you better go in now. i should think he'd know better. - he wanted to see me. - and you should, too. i happen to like alfred, mother. the eatons are nothing and nobody. the motheris a drunkard. the father is a nouveau riche war profiteer. how do you know? you haven't met them. i have sources of information. if he were a gentleman, he'd stay away before people start talking. we don't want him. that's all there is to it. that isn't all there is to it. - i've broken my engagement to jim. - i can't believe it. mary... i forbid you to see this man again. i don't like that word forbid. it makes me want to disobey you. in that case, i shall have a talk with mr eaton. alfred or his father? i meant the young man, but you've given me an idea. don't do that, father! it's my life! i don't have to take that kind of talk from eugene st. john or any of that dupont crowd! - you didn't. you hung up on him. - if you'd stayed where you belong... - maybe i don't like where i belong. - that's what sours your insides that my blood and your mother's is running through your veins. that's why you get mixed up with a family who doesn't want you. - i'm not interested in her family! - you can't buy respectability by slipping a wedding ring on it. sometimes you end up with what you're running from. - and remember, i told you. - if you're through, i'm going. where, back to that apartment your friend porter and all those questionable goings-on? you haven't done an honest day's work since you left the navy! for your information i'm going into business with lex porter. business? what kind of business? - aircraft, private planes. - airplanes. that's right. we're going to design, them, build them and sell them. what are you going to use for money? it's already been taken care of. - lex's family financing you? v- that's right. - yes, 10o% . you're puttingvyour head in a noose. i was going to ask you for my share, but i changed my mind. how much were you going to ask me to give you? not give, lend. what's the difference? here's what i think of your airplane business. put me down for 500 dollars. well, that's exactly 500 dollars more than i expected if i had asked you for it. - wait a minute. - it's too late. it's something else. there's something i have to know. i've been wanting to ask you. come to the office. i don't know how to start this. i mean, where's the beginning? did you ever hear of a man named frolick? - did you? - yes. in what connection? i'd rather you put the question some other way. all right. - did you ever meet this man? - i saw him once. - did you beat him up? - yes, i did. thank god. thank god it was you. maybe you're a lot of things i never gave you credit for, but a man my age can't change so quickly. i can admit i've been wrong all these years, but that wouldn't make anything right. it won't take away what i felt about you, what i still feel, regardless of what i know in my brain. some time when you have children, you'll know. one of them is in here. he shines. his voice is music. you love him as though he never lived in his mother's body. that's the way billy was to me long before he died. and when he died, there was nobody who understood what happened to me. you were living, you were alive, a deliberate thing god did to me. i didn't want another son or anyone in my life. not you, not even your mother. just billy. that's why your mother took frolick, not because she's immoral, because i didn't even tell her i didn't love her anymore. she had to find that out for herself. i guess she knew it before i did. and yet, even knowing, how badly it turned out for everybody, including myself, i would do the same thing over again. it was so wonderful loving billy that much. always in your thoughts. i can feel his arms around my neck this minute. don't go. don't go? what do you think i am? alfred, i didn't mean it! alfred, my son... alfred? - hello, mary. - get in. good evening. good evening. how's your father? it's hard to tell. he's always the same man sick or well. yes. old men may seem unchangeable to you, alfred, but life itself now, there's a different thing. consider this. aweek ago, i was opposed to any thought of you two marrying. tonight, i'm not only reconciled to it i'm secretly in favor of it. yes. life's full of unpredictable ironies. now, you wouldn't have thought it was going to be your own father who would be responsible for this change in my attitude. my father? how? by having this unfortunate heart attack which automatically transforms your life. you suddenly change from irresponsible young man to the active head of a family and eaton iron and steel. and this removes the objections we had to you as a prospective son-in-law. you haven't had experience running a mill, alfred, but you can be sure i'll help you in any way i can. thank you very much, but i haven't got the slightest intention of running my father's mill. i plan to be active head of my own family, which means mary and me. good night, sir. good night, mary. do you give up? yes, i give up. - congratulations. - thank you. eugene, lovely day for a wedding. hello, mary. i wouldn't miss this for the world. - don't go, sage. - i think i'd better. i read all your letters. i know exactly how you feel. does he know you the way i do? does he know that wild and wonderful nature of yours? i think you'd better leave. - it won't work. - please go. you don't have to marry him to get what you want of him. good luck, mary. yeah? hi. what's the matter you change your mind? alfred, do you love me? do i love you? of course i love you. is that why you called? all right. i love you. i love you. i love yoi. and incidentally we have a date tonight. careful, now. somebody might be listening. yeah. bye-bye. hi. come on in. i've got a great idea. porter-eaton flying machine company. tailspins, incorporated. bottoms up corporation? if uncle fritz ever heard me talking like this he'd probably take back the money. alfred, you trust me, don't you? why, sure, i do. you're my best man. i have to tell you something, then. i can't. your mother just phoned from the hospital. she told me not to say anything especially to you. what is it? your father died a few minutes ago. i'm sorry. - shall i tell them to call off the wedding? - no. well, i guess he hated me so much, he couldn't even... stand to be alive on the day i got married. oh, i like this little baby. she's like my ideal woman: handles easily, levels off without too much work. - hey, buddy, you're not with me. - oh, i'm with you. come on, what is it? i saw those new engines in the hangar today. the navy ordered 100 from continental. - we heard about it and got two. - who's we? - von elm and myself. - why wasn't i consulted? - we need engines, don't we? - yeah. i don't like your going over my head. how do you like it? we're about to buzz your happy little home and your happy little wife. the least you can do is put a smile, on that sour pan of yours. what did you marry, a man or a mosquito? very much a man, sage. a delicious man and all man from the top of his head to the tip of his toes. what was that"ah-ah"for? you've been married over a year. if you're about to say, "why no children?" don't. - that's my doing, not his. - me talk about children? i hate the little stinkers. you absolutely shock me, sage. why, because i say what you secretly feel? oh, stop it. it's unfair, you know, the way i tell you everything about steve and me, what it's like when we're alone together... and you not only don't let me in on a thing... that goes on between you and that gorgeous fellow, you even try to pull the wool over my eyes. the trouble with you is you're nothing but a frustrated peeping tom. wrong gender, darling. come on now, woman-to-woman, what's he like? he's fine. if only he'd come home into your waiting arms a little more often, huh? precisely what can a group ofred-blooded american males, do to an airplane propeller until 4:oo in the morning? well, i don't think i'd want a man who wasn't interested in being successful. oh, i'm curious. what does success look like when you turn out the lights? oh, you're impossible, sage. i say if work is a man's mistress then there's only one answer for the wife... another man. and how is jim roper these days? - ever hear from him? - of course not. now, don't let faint heart spoil life's golden opportunities, darling. i don't want to seem a bore, but i'm not interested in this. - what gives? - i don't know. - pull it up. - i'm trying. what happened? fortunately, he woke up in time. looked like the new stabilizer to me. what new stabilizer? we're trying out a modified version of the old one. what's wrong with the unmodified version of the old one? well, nothing, really, but there's always room for refinement. wait a minute. i won't make a point out of the fact that nobody told me what's happening. i got a bigger point to make. you and von elm must think we're running an aeronautical laboratory. we're designing planes, refining planes, modifying planes, redesigning planes. we're doing everything but selling planes. either we're in business or not. i think we got a good plane there. let's freeze the design, start manufacturing, and start selling. and if you don't see it that way, we ought to sit down and have a serious talk. in your office or mine? every time sage start stalking like that, i get a little crazy. i don't want to win out anymore. i just want to get out. i feel like i'm blushing all over. i'd hate to have her think i'm a... what do you call me? ahot number. lex doesn't give a hang about business. i went into this to make money, not in five year, next year, tomorrow. all i could think of was one thing. how much i wanted you. if he and von elm want to play tiddlywinks, with fritz thornton's money they can do it without me. sunday, i'll tell them either i get some control, or i want out. darling? you talk too much. - so long, mary, jim. - see you back at the house. - can we go inside, mr thornton? - you cold? i'd like to have a few words with you. sure you don't want to keep an eye on mary? - why? she's a good skater. - that's not exactly what i meant. - you were my girl. - obviously i wasn't your girl. you wouldn't say awful things, about somebody you cared about. you made a fool out of me. think i'd be a little gentleman? if you wanted to make me feel terrible, you've succeeded. jim, don't. now when i hold a girl, i pretend it's you. that's a filthy thing to say. i've had a dozen girls since you left me, but they've all been you, mary. that's the way it's going to be with you. some night in bed, he'll turn into me. you angry, alfred, or just thinking? what? oh, no, i'm not angry. i expected you to support lex and von elm. i admit it would be easier to make money now, but it would be nothing compared to what might come in 5 or 10 years if the itch for quick profits could, remain unscratched for a while. well, i have to make a decision then don't i, mrthornton? yes, i guess you do, but not today. on the seventh day the businessman should rest. if it was nothing why were you running away from him? i was not running away. my fingers were freezing. do you want a wife with frozen fingers? - what did you two talk about? - he still loves me. thanks. you wouldn't have believed me if i said we talked about the weather. did he kiss you? - i bet he tried to kiss you. - not only that. he picked me up in his arms and carried me off. you're just trying to make a joke out of it. darling, you're being silly. i like him. i always have liked him. you can't expect me to stop liking my men friends any more than i can expect you to stop liking your women friends. - let's not talk about it. - that suits me fine. sandy! sandy! alfred, stop the car. look! sandy fell in! oh, sir! mr machardie! sandy fell in. he wouldn't listen to me. here, give him to me. - get away from here. who are you? - i'm his grandfather. call a doctor, the fire department. it's all right. you can't begrudge them for wanting to thank you. i wish he'd let it go at sending flowers. you rescued the grandson of james duncan machardie, who is only the most famous financier in america. i know. we'll get a lot more than a houseful of flowers and an evening of gratitude, you can be sure. first he'll look us over to find out whether we're sufficiently respectable. - that word again. - then he'll look me over to find out whether my halo's bright enough to qualify me for one of those desks of his at number25 wall street. an aging fortress of banking integrity. you must admit the timing's perfect what with you planning to leave lex and no job in sight. how do you know i'll take his job? because i know you, darling, and you're very shrewd. you're not at all the kind of man to turn down the opportunity of a lifetime. no matter how much you protest, darling. besides, doesn't wall street close up shop early in the afternoon? i love the idea of your being available to me more often. - is that all it would mean to you? - what's wrong with a girl worrying about her own needs now and then? how nice of you to come. i'm jean duffy, mr machardie's daughter, and sandy's very grateful mother. this is my husband creighton. - we wanted to thank you alone... - and we do. but we also wanted sandy to meet the gentleman who saved his life. oh sandy, dear. - this is mrs eaton. - hello, sandy. - and mr eaton you have met before. - glad you dried off. - thank you very much for fishing me out of the pond. my pleasure. - and? , -and... oh, yes. and it's a good thing i wasn't any smaller or you'd have had to throw me back. - oh, very good. - good. now, son, skedaddle. - good night, sandy. now you're ready for your cocktail. creighton, will you and mrs eaton lead the way? you were very sweet to him, mr eaton. i'd like you to meet the other guests. mrs ripley... lady sevringham... mrs pearson... lord sevringham. - my father you know, of course. - glad to see you again, sir. and mrthornton. mrand mrs eaton. i think that does it. i didn't expect to see you here. it might turn out to be something of an occasion. watch out for creighton duffy. he's a member of machardie and company, but only because he's a son-in-law. resents competition. you have a portland, oregon and a portland, maine. why, when you have a new country like this and a splendid opportunity to start from scratch with all-new names why must you have two portlands? well, we have a lot worse than that. - you've heard of california. - i have a friend there. - and you've heard of indiana. - yes, i think so. - and pennsylvania. - philadelphia is in pennsylvania. but we have a california in pennsylvania, and an indiana in pennsylvania. - i'm not at all surprised. you have a place in new york called the polo grounds and all they do there is play baseball and football. i never saw an elephant in piccadilly circus. did you? well, gentlemen, i think brandy and cigars are in order. creighton, will you play host in the lounge while i have a few words with mr eaton? i like the way you handle yourself, young man. it was a lucky shot. i was not referring to your manipulation of a cue stick. i've made inquiries about you, mr eaton and the results have been most satisfying. i'm very flattered. i'm not in the habit of offering positions with machardie and company to men who qualify as lifeguards and nothing more. that seems to make good sense, just as a sensible man ought never to accept anything that life has to offer unless he's absolutely sure that that's what he wants. can a man be that sure of his goals? - i think so. - tell me yours. i want to live in a big world compete with big people, and make big money. - how big is big? - as big as you are, sir. certainly bigger than my father. i always wanted to top my father, too. it helped me to achieve what i did even if i fell short by almost 30 million. i don't intend to fall short. and preferably not with your present business associates? there is such a thing as information, mr eaton. and you've got it. - how long will it take you to settle your affairs? - two months. - shall we join the ladies? - at your pleasure. yeah. what? you're right, mary. i'm sorry. i said i'm sorry. well, why don't you go on ahead, then and i'll meet you there. yeah. what? yeah. right now. absolutely. - when will he get back? - in time for christmas, he hopes. what's he doing in california? he's not in california. that was last year. it's colorado. what's he doing in colorado? buying a copper mine for mr machardie. well, make sure he buys you one, too. how is every little thing in baton rouge, louisiana? it is louisiana, isn't it? alfred, you'll have to speak up. i can't hear you. look, why don't you come a little closer like... new york city? that's in new york state, remember? i am not. i've only had one teeny little glass of champagne. oh, just the usual crowd. you know, sage and steve, nancy and parker wells and... nobody else you know, i don't think. yes, dear, i will. you, too. bye-bye. tell him we can meet whenever it's convenient. - mr eaton... - yes? mr machardie wishes to have lunch with you at 12:oo. i've got another engagement. - it is now 3 minutes to 12:oo, sir. - all right. thank you, sir. see if you can catch mrs eaton at home... and if it's too late, just call the restaurant. - yes. you will be there posing as one of our bond salesmen opening up new territory eyes open, ear to the ground. find out all you can about a man named ralph wbenziger. - benziger. - if we ever make sizable commitments in that area, this is the man we might want to take charge provided his hands are clean. that's for you to find out, what kind of man he is. a question, sir. was it mr duffy that suggested me for this expedition to mountain city? in the past, you might have felt that mr duffy recommended you for other surveys in order to keep you away from home base. perhaps that may have been in his mind. it's of no interest to me. i am interested only in results. i may tell you, young man, they have been enormously profitable and largely due to the shrewdness of your reports. thank you, sir. not to go beyond the walls of this room... the only gold stars on my son-in-law's record have been his recommendation of you for these assignments. - how long will i be gone? - you'll be there about two months. - can i take my wife? - i prefer not. - plan to leave not later than friday night. - friday night? we just moved into our new york apartment. we've got 35 people coming over on sunday. i've never made any sacrifice for this firm that i didn't feel amply repaid. no dessert for me. good luck and good day to you. - well, good night, mary. - thank you, steve. good morning. good morning. why didn't you meet us? didn't you see the note i left? i got home too late. i had to finish that dunham report. i suppose i'm supposed to know what the dunham report is. one of the trivial little things that helps pay to keep you neck and neck with harper's bazaar. - thank you. incidentally, just where did you wear that little number until 2:oo this morning? i wore this little number to the mona lisa. would you unzip me in the back, please? i thought sage didn't like that place anymore. oh, sage wasn't along. she stayed home with a bad tooth or something. - what, just you and her husband? - just little old us. can't you do any better than that? as a matter of fact, i could have, but he had another date with the dingham report. - dunham. oh, so sorry. dunham. suppose you tell me what was so important that you left me sitting alone today... over a chicken salad sandwich while you had lunch with machardie. he's giving me a new assignment. the coal regions ofpennsylvania. i'd give you the details, but you're obviously not interested. i have to leave friday night. - and what about the party on sunday? - i know. i'm sorry. and just how long do you suppose you'll be gone this time? about two months. and of course i am forbidden to go with you or to visit you because... it's not exactly forbidden, but... the trouble with this company is it's run by old men. i hope you know what they're doing to us. what should i do, resign? i'm not going to sit around and stare at four walls again. - you don't have to. - if somebody invites me to the theater, i'm going to the theater. - go to the theater! what if it's somebody you don't know? aman. i don't want you having dates with guys i don't know. suppose it's somebody you know and don't like? - for instance? - jim roper. - what made you think of him? - he's coming to the party on sunday. how did that happen? i ran into him on fifth avenue and invited him. in that case, i'm glad i'm not going to be here. it's probably just as well if that's your attitude. yeah, it is my attitude. another thing: you're not going out with jim roper and that's final! - final? - yes! that's final. well, i wouldn't be too sure. you go right along to pennsylvania and you play with your grimy coal miners, but don't be too sure. anything on that call to new york? - come in. - here you are, sir. keep trying, will you? - they're celebrating the football game. - no kidding. they play on sunday? sure. mountain city beat the steamrollers 28 to nothing. thanks. hey, you're that providence left end. i know you. - nope. sorry. - you played awful dirty. you should have been thrown out of the game. - i was. - no, you weren't, but you should have been. - you're cute. - come on in and join us. i've got a couple of quarts. - i'm in training. - for what? - i'll bet you're married. - you're absolutely right. - my wife gave a party today. - she did? - you know who was there? - who? - not me. why don't we stay in here, then? i bet you won't be sorry 'cause when i like a fella... - i hate to say no to a lady. - well, don't. - but you got to beat it. - what do you mean? i just got here. - and you just went out. - well, luck to you, buckley! - hello. hello, mary? - hello. i've been calling all evening. well, nobody was here. we all went to dinner at michel's after the party. who's"we"? peg and bill, sage and steve and jim roper and i. - who brought you home? - jim. - how long did he stay? - about half an hour. you going to see him again? i don't know... oh, yes. he'll be at peg and bill's friday for dinner. then he'll undoubtedly bring you home. possibly. i don't know. you know what you're doing, don't you? yes. i'm showing you i won't stay cooped up while you're free as a bird all in the holy name of career. listen, i don't want that guy in our apartment anymore. you tell him, or i'll come back and tell him myself. if i do, he'll have a tough time explaining a busted head to his patients. very well. i'll tell him. is that all? yeah, that's all. you're not to come up here anymore. people don't think of this area as being cold. we have readings of 15, 18, 20 degrees below. i'm glad you came in to see me today, mr eaton. i'm not always as talkative as this. maybe that's because i don't run across many... who are willing to listen. it's my pleasure, mr benziger. i mean it. that's mighty nice of you. makes me feel poorly about not being in the market for any bonds right now. i know how it is breaking in a new territory. we've got good days and bad days. this happens to be one of my good ones. local folks tell me you've been making a few inquiries about me. yes, sir. alittle. if you heard anything disgraceful, it's probably true. you down here all by yourself? - pretty lonesome town. - my wife's back in new york. - taking care of the kiddies, eh? - no. no kiddies. excuse me. yes? well, put her on. hello, natalie. oh, let's see. in about... 15 minutes. yeah, i will. oh, hold on a second. you're alone. why don't you join us for dinner? you won't get as good a steak anywhere, i guarantee you. - if that's an invitation, i'm sold. - good. nat? tell mother i'm bringing a guest for dinner. i will. bye. quiet, rocco, it's all right, yes. he can be pretty loud at times. my wife and daughter are alone a good deal at night. - hello, dad. - hi, nat. natalie, this is mr eaton. how do you do? won't you come in? oh, dad. like the side of a matchbox. can't think why. i shaved at 5:oothis morning. i'll take those, mr eaton. they usually go under the stairs but we're getting new shelves. - you hear that, dad? - i heard. i know. i haven't finished them yet. this is the den, but as you see, it's as much office as den. - i'll go get mother. be down in a minute. - okay. i'd never seen a mine before last monday. - this one of yours? - yes. that's number four. dad wanted to call it the natalie, but he was overruled. this one's number one. it's the oldest, but number four is our pride and joy. when built, it was the most electrified colliery in the world. this is my favorite room in the whole house. i used to come here and do my homework. - especially your arithmetic. - why do you say that? so your father could help you. no. i was very good in arithmetic, but he did help me with everything else. he'll help you with a drink in a second. - i'm in no hurry for one. - tell me something. - yes? how does it feel to be someone like you, blooming in a coal town like this? do you really want to know? well, i love it here. when the mountains are covered with laurel or snow, there's something so beautiful about them. and the people, too. the miners. the old ones, not the young. i've been in so many of their homes. not much time left to them. not much to show for working hard all their lives, yet they have such dignity and wisdom, sorrow and pride. oh, mother, this is mr eaton. good evening. it's nice of you to come. you're kind to have me. why is everyone standing around? let's have a drink. - nothing for me, dear. - nor me, dad. what's wrong with you people? mr eaton? - straight scotch is fine. - that's my boy. only one drink now. we don't want ours teak ruined. welcome to our city. welcome to our home. and all that's beautiful in it. i guess we live closer to basic instincts here than some other regions i could name. these miners are a pretty hard-bitten lot. sometimes they start home a little drunk, fall down an air shaft, get bitten by a rattlesnake, drown in a dam. yet i have to say i can't blame the men... goodness, i had no idea. well, i can finish this tomorrow. - coming to bed? - maybe i'm a softie baby the men too much, but... - good night, mr eaton. - good night. thank you very much. we enjoyed having you. i might as well say good night, too. nat, would you keep mr eaton company for a minute? mother has a heart condition. she never stays up later than 1o: oo. what do you do with your time or do you have a heart condition, too? no, i have no particular heart condition of either kind. i do wel fare work, gardening, go to the movies... the usual. - would you go to the movies with me sometime? - no. 'cause i'm married? that's a pretty good reason at least in mountain city. how about going to the movies with me in philadelphia? mr eaton, you probably have a very nice wife. i suppose you're angry because i asked you. - no. i consider it a compliment. - i hope you do. you're the first person i've asked out since i've been married. - thank you. - there's some other things... i really don't want to encourage this conversation. - mother all right, dad? - oh, yes. i had some things to tell her. i won't be seeing her in the morning. i guess i'll be wandering along. natalie's having some people for dinner saturday. it'd be nice if you came, too. i don't think mr eaton would enjoy himself. it's just our bridge club. - i'll take a rain check. another time. - that would be better. all right, but we hope you'll come, back for dinner sometime. - good night. - good night. - good night. - good night. hello. hello. natalie? i was just thinking about you. what were you thinking? i'm glad you did the right thing. you said no and turned me out into the cold and lonely night. don't. you saved me from making a big mistake. maybe it was i who made the mistake. what do you mean? i don't know. i'm not sure. are you? no. there's a drive-in movie just outside of town. - the last show starts at 9:30. - yes? - tomorrow night? - tomorrow night. the last row of cars. a yellow plymouth convertible, slightly covered with coal dust. we're probably making a big mistake. you know that, don't you? yes. i know. good night. good night. - hello. - hello. i guess we're the only two people watching the movie. - you know something? - what? i don't even know your first name. actually, it's david. david alfred eaton. see, i liked david, and my father liked alfred, so it was alfred. - may i call you david? if you like. - do you believe in love at first sight? - no. - neither do i. - i believe in confusion. yes. aman walks around in a desert all his life looking for water. all he ever finds is sand. i didn't know you were lost in the desert. i didn't know it either until last night. i walked into a house where there was warmth that didn't come from radiators. i saw your mother and father, and i saw you. you're lonely. you're away from home, that's all. no. in one evening my whole life seemed to change. i know it sounds ridiculous, but you made me feel like i'd been cheated out of something all my life. it's funny... that movie out there doesn't seem so bad with the sound turned off. in other words, you'd like me to shut up. no. i'd like you to do much more than that. now you've got me lost in the desert. i guess we're all out here, searching. even your wife? i didn't sleep very well last night after i left you and now many things seem clearer to me. i don't know if you're still in love with your wife, but i do know that you haven't given up on your marriage. i know if we stop now, we'll never do injury to anyone except possibly ourselves. i want to say goodbye, but not in a letter. so i'll have to see you one last time. - sure it's all right? - what? oh, i don't know. our cars being parked so close together? nobody uses this road. in fact, nobody knows this place except wild rabbits and squirrels, chipmunks and field mice, and birds and butterflies and... - falling leaves. - which one of those are you? i don't know. asquirrel, perhaps, or... maybe just a coward. i saved your letter. - you know, i realize something now, david. - what? it was the proper way to say goodbye. - the only way. - natalie. - yes? - look at me. you know something? even if we never see each other again, something very good has happened, 'cause you'll know for the rest of your life that... just the sight of you... just the sound of your voice created a feeling in me that was so strong that i couldn't treat it as polite conversation or with silence. and i... i'll always remember a sad, lonely, searching young man, who passed through my life for a brief moment. and i loved his sadness, his loneliness, his searching. please don't. well, i'll make it easier. i'm leaving here. i'm going back to new york tonight. in three weeks, i accomplished all i set out to... more than i intended. will we be writing to each other? - what do you think? - no. of course not. welcome back. - i ordered for both of us. - fine. i haven't studied your report, but i did glance through it briefly. its thoroughness convinced me, that i've no reason to be displeased with you for coming back so soon. you did what was expected of you. i'm glad you agreed about benziger. fine man. however, that's not what i wanted to talk about. we don't want to be disturbed. i'll get right to the point. have you seen your wife, or did you come here directly from mountain city? mary? no. i got home last night. she was still out on long island and she hadn't returned when i left this morning. may i assume you're aware of trouble in your home? would you care to be more specific? well, now, you see our mr hasbrouck who, as you know, has nothing but the highest regard for you happens to live in westport, connecticut. so it was inevitable he should hear about your wife's presence at the home of a neighbor: mrand mrs joseph cash. - cash? i don't know them. - no, you don't. but dr. james roper does, and it was there that he spent last weekend with your wife after the princeton-yale football game. you have my word, or mr. hasbrouck's word, that that particular host and hostess make a practice of having a houseful of guests every weekend the attraction being that there'll be no checking on who sleeps in which room. aren't you jumping to conclusions? i can assure you that mr hasbrouck made quite certain your wife's affair was an open secret before he invited eugene st. john to lunch. - eugene st. john? - their talk was most informal. st. john agreed to take no action right now, but he promised to speak to his daughter when you decided it was necessary or advisable and that is where the matter stands. that's not where the matter stands where i'm concerned. it's none of this firm's business what my wife does. i'm surprised mr st. john didn't tell percy hasbrouck to go to the devil. he probably realized what's good for your future is good for his daughter's. if there's anything that he, i, or anyone can do to save your marriage he's forit. - what if i don't want to save it? then we've failed. then you have failed, eaton. divorce is a damnable thing. it violates good order. - it's a threat to good order. - isn't it just possible that infidelity might be grounds for a divorce? there are no grounds for divorce. if you want my personal theology infidelity is the lesser sin. i'd do anything in my power to prevent a divorce. including condoning infidelity? i consider your word "condon" disrespectful. i condone none of it. the problem of infidelity is between husband and wife and god. the problem of divorce concerns the whole of civilization. what is marriage? an exchange of vows, a contract. it is my duty to myself and to any man working for me to demand that he honor all his contracts. when you came here you found out we always honor our word even if it means taking a loss. this is the first opportunity you've had of putting yourself to our test. - and if i don't meet your test? you've worked hard and well, eaton. you have a fine, hard-earned record with us. you can't afford to throw that away. i can afford to do as i please. and i say with all due respect that you can afford nothing of the kind. i wasn't going to tell you this. i didn't want it to form part of your decision, but i like you, eaton, and i don't want to lose you. only you and i will know that i mentioned it at this early date. - mentioned what? - the roll-top desk. the partnership. i've had discussions with the board and it's only a question of time and much less now than you might suppose. stay where you are, son. you've a lot of thinking to do. but don't do it all now. you've had a bad time. well, you're back. - was the trip successful? - yeah. are you back for good or is this just a visit? for good. finished up sooner than you expected? sooner than you expected, too. now that i'm back you'll have to start behaving yourself. did you say start? i know all about you and roper at the cashes'. i could subpoena everybody that was up there... and divorce you in new york state. but you won't because mr machardie wouldn't like that. you think you're pretty clever, but you're not. you flaunted your affair publicly. i don't like a wife thumbing her nose at me. and i don't like having a husband who isn't a husband. - what do you think you're doing? - what does it look like? what do you expect me to do, enter a convent? i'm sure you'll find yourself a woman, if you haven't already. you just better be careful. you'd better be able to explain every minute of your time. or you'll do what? i'll put you where you're afraid of landing in the tabloids, page one, two, or three. take your choice! i know why you're doing this to me! it's not our marriage you're trying to hold together. it's your own sick dream of 5 million before you're 40! be the big man, bigger than your father! mr eaton, will you go directly into the partners' room, please? mr duffy, please go directly into the partners' room. creighton, come in. alfred, come in and sit down. now, we've been having a go at the nassau proposal and we've been taking under consideration nassau's request that we underwrite a common-stock issue to finance a plant expansion. nassau obviously wants to expand, because they expect to land a sizable contract to manufacture their new e1-fx plane for the navy and it behooves us to look into this e1-fx to see how good an aircraft it is before we commit machardie and company to getting involved. sir, isn't the united states navy's interest in the planes sufficient endorsement for us? ordinarily it should be, but in this case my sixth sense tells me that we ought at least to conduct a routine investigation of the e1-fx before under writing the venture, particularly as we have on our team a man so well qualified to do it. alfred, you're not only a personal friend of alexander porter, but you were associated with nac in the days before it rose to prominence in the aircraft manufacturing field. some people seem to think my departure from nassau marked the beginning of its rise. wouldn't we be placing mr. eaton in a rather embarrassing position by asking him to attempt to exercise impartial judgment where his close friend mr porter is concerned? and who would you recommend for the job, creighton? well, sir, in as much as i brought this venture to the firm's attention and in as much as i'm familiar with all of its ramifications... i have every confidence in mr eaton's judgment and loyalty. alfred, how long will it take you to get this underway? by a fortunate coincidence, mrs eaton and i will be at mr. porter's table at a charity ball saturday. there's no rule saying a man can't take advantage of his host, is there? i'd like to say i'm close to everything that goes on at nassau, but i'm just the titular head. if you'll pardon the expression. thanks to uncle fritz' money i reap the dividends, the profits, and the credit. yes, thanks. von elm's the real brains. he'll give you all the facts you need. - can you set it up? - i'll see you get the run of the place. thanks. - can i ask you a corny question? - if you don't mind a corny answer. are you getting anything out of yoursuccess besides more success? why don't you say what you mean? - all right. let'stalk about mary. - nothing to talk about. things any better? they're not any worse. they'll never get any better. - i'm not interested. - i'm not good enough for you? you might say that. you won't be the first dissatisfied wife i've made happy. i'd like to go back to the table. he doesn't even know you're alive what perfume you're wearing or how gorgeous you are. everyone knows it. so do you. - let go of me, please. - don't act. i know all about you. do you? alfred, would you take me home, please? i thought you were having a merry old time. - good night. it was delightful. - good night, princess. - you were a charming host. - but corny? - get my car, please. - yes, sir. - hello, natalie. - hello. it's nice to see you again. do you know my wife mary? natalie benziger. - how do you do, mrs eaton? - hello, miss benziger. - what brings you to new york? - a little shopping expedition. are you here with your mother? no. with a friend: mrs english. caroline english. - how's your father? - he's fine, thank you. where did you two know each other in philadelphia? i tried to sell natalie's father some bonds that time when i was down in mountain city. - in pennsylvania, remember? - yes, i remember. well, good night, mrs eaton. it's very nice meeting you. - good night, natalie. - good night. well, and what does she call you? miss benziger. she calls me mrs eaton and you call her natalie, but she doesn't call you anything. aren't you mr eaton or alfred? as a matter of fact, i'm calvin coolidge, but she doesn't know that. she's really quite lovely, you know. - and you know me. i like men. - so i'm told. when she's that lovely, i find it hard to hate her. - i think you were lucky. - i was? yes. she has something i haven't got... niceness. - but then i have something she hasn't got. - me? no. honesty and guts. she has no guts. what are you doing? don't worry. i'm not calling your girl friend. i don't have to. dr roper, please. hello, jim? remember me? exactly. look, why don't we have dinner sometime? tomorrow night? aren't i, though? fine. i'll meet you at your place. marvelous. any objections? i have no facts and no evidence, so this is what i'm going to do. - it's all i can do. - just like that? yes, just like that. i let you talk to foremen, designers, mechanics, public relations men. everybody but the test pilot. i'm sure they told you everything they know. they were instructed to be cooperative. i'll bet they were. everybody's been very helpful. e1-fx is the greatest plane to ever sprout wings. maybe it can fly, too. - what am i supposed to say? - i don't want you to say anything. before i go back to wall street and report the failure of a mission, i'll give you one hour to produce this test pilot that's been so mysteriously busy. - suppose i can't find him. then you're in the wrong business. - don't think that won't be in my report, too. - wait a minute. - get kelly in here. - yes, sir. if somebody like me didn't know you well, they'd figure you to walk in here with a whole set of prejudices against us. you left this company when it was nothing because you thought it would always be nothing. i'm glad i'm known so well by somebody like you. come in. you sent for me, sir? this is jerry kelly, our test pilot. - i think mr kelly and i will take a walk. - what do you mean, a walk? that's where you put one foot in front of the other. all the time we've wasted. i'll make it up to you. i intend to make you do that. every time i'm with you this way i get the strangest feeling. - well, i'm a strange man. - are you? - and you're a strange woman. - how am i strange? - haven't you discovered that yet? - no. well, i'll let you find out. jim. do you love me? love you? honey, i adore you but i don't believe in love any more than you do. i believe in you wanting me and me wanting you. that's what brings you here and that's what will keep us together. then i don't suppose there's any sense in us talking about marriage or even thinking about it. look, let's have no more talk about love or eternal devotion, shall we? jim! want me. please want me. oh, david... the first real thing in a whole long year. i had to see you again. this is really why i came to new york. well, i'm glad you did. i've been wondering... wondering about so many things. - you have? - yes. your wife, she's lovelier than i thought she'd be. and you're still with her, aren't you? we live under the same roof. that's all. david, is there someplace we can go? so there it is. or there it was. i could have divorced her for it. i could have, but i didn't, because it would have meant damaging my career. god help me. my career seems to be more important than i ever thought it could be. i put you out of my mind and buried myself in my work even deeper than before. but i guess it never really worked, because whenever i thought of you, it was... it was always with love. then the other night, the moment i saw you, it was like seeing you that very first time. but i felt real danger for both of us. you see, that's why... i wish i'd had the courage not to phone you. so be careful, natalie. i have nothing to offer you except pain. deep, tender, loving pain... and i don't want to hurt you. - you understand what i'm trying to say? - yes, i do. if you had any sense you'd get up from the table and never see me again. - do you want me to? oh, david. i can't bear being with you any longer, just talking. - is there someplace we can go? - no, natalie. - a hotel? - you wouldn't like that. no, neither would you. but arrange it, darling, please. busy, busy, busy. how's the nassau investigation going? don't you want to wait for my report? only if i have to. don't worry. you'll get the whole story tomorrow. i hear you had a talk with their test pilot, a fellow named kelly? that's right. you saved my son's life once. you might want to do the same for his old man. you skate on thin ice, you'll get your feet wet. weren't you skating on thin ice last night making love in public to a young lady who bears no resemblance to your wife? you should be more careful. wait a minute. let's be a little realistic. we may want to do each other a big favor. do me a favor. get out of the way. you know as well as i do that mr machardie has some hidebound notions about improper behavior around here. - like the improper way you tried to turn the nassau deal into your own private game? i got proof i plan to put before the board tomorrow. oh, you wouldn't do that, because if you do, you go with me. you and your plaything. - why don't you go jump in the lake? - that's your specialty. that's how you got into this company in the first place. sir, could i interest you in a set of the encyclopaedia britannica? - step right this way, young lady and we will discuss the matter. - thanks. oh, darling, hold on to me. don't let me run away. i almost didn't come. i turned back twice. you know, we don't have to stay here. we could go for a walk or out for dinner, go to the... champagne? come here. - look. - it's lovely. you know, i think i'm going to remember this night for all time. and someday, when we finally part, i'll go to spain and live with my memories. as soon as i see you getting tired of me. you'll be too old to travel when that happens. i love you. more than i ever thought i could love anybody. i love you, david. - message from mr duffy. - get out! - get more of the girl. - i got plenty. - let's go. come on, let's go! why do i feel this... - this kind of death? - of what? i don't know. you were just thinking of what your mother and father would feel, if they saw one of those photographs of us. i wasn't thinking that, and i won't let you. can't keep it out of your mind forever. unless i play ball with duffy tomorrow, you're going to be undressed in public, smeared all over the newspapers. i don't care. believe me. i knew what i was doing. i've got to accept the consequences, whatever they are. i won't let them do it to you. not to me. if you're going to let that man blackmail you, it's to protect your career. everything you've worked for, not me. you see? that's the death i feel. there will always be that uncertainty for you, won't there? why you did it, for whom. well, i don't think i could live with that. can't we end this kind of talk? you're very close to saying final things. maybe they have to be said. maybe there never really was any future for us and it took your friend mr duffy to wake us up from the dream. you know what you're doing, don't you? sending me back to mary and yourself back to mountain city. is that what you want? well, if it is, why don't you say so? because the moment i do... i'll feel that my life is over. you're trying to force me to say it, then. i guess maybe i am. all right, then... if that's the way you want it. goodbye, natalie. goodbye. is something wrong? anything you want to unload? the least i can do is listen. you know something, alfred? you and i could have such a pleasant relation ship, if you'd just unbend a little. - what kind of relation ship? what ever we like. of course, i know there's no love lost between us, but... if you'd just stop playing the role of the aggrieved husband, we might have the same enjoyable relation ship... that a lot of our married friends have. well, i've seen you look at me when i knew you wanted me and i certainly wanted you. and you just turned around and walked back in your own bedroom. i always thought, he's such a fool, such a waste. - now, wouldn't it be nicer if we were friends this way? - shut up. you look like an old man tonight, alfred. what's the matter, is your girl friend giving you trouble? i don't want to talk about it. i hope you haven't been stringing her along and telling her you were going to get a divorce. knowing women, i'm sure she kept hoping you would and now she's angry because you won't. i always knew she had no guts. well, am i wrong? is your girl friend holding out on you and demanding marriage? mary, please. if it'll do you any good you can tell her it's not just your boss man who's standing in your way. you can tell her that you also have a wife who happens to like her marital arrangement and doesn't intend to change it. why not? it gives me status, security and a wonderful kind of freedom. well, why are you staring at me? when i think of the misery that we've brought each other, the wasted years, betrayals, humiliations... i'm not blaming you for it. i guess i did as much as you did to destroy whatever we had between us, but it's gone now. it's beyond recovery, dead. that's all right. we don't need it. as a matter of fact, maybe it would be more interesting without it. i'm going to bed now, alfred. i'm really not that bad, remember? - mr eaton? - yeah. sign here, please. thank you. before we hear mr eaton's report on the nassau aeronautical corporation situation, i have a few words to say of a very happy nature. all right, henry. i know you'll forgive me for breaking one of our more tire some traditions, if i decorate this stale but profitable room today with the presence of an attractive young lady. gentlemen, mrs alfred eaton. how do you do? right over there, mary. mrs eaton was let into our little secret, several days ago and if i may judge by the look of surprise on her husband's face she's kept her secret better than most women are considered capable of doing. now, alfred, i come to something which is no secret and that is the high esteem in which you are held by this firm. i speak not only for myself, but for all my partners. you have dedicated yourself to your work with a devotion that might serve as an example to all young men who aspire to success. you have sacrificed your own pleasures and pastimes for us. you have traveled all over the country for us. you've sat at your desk until 3:oo and 4:00 in the morning forus. and time and again you have executed difficult assignments with more boldness and courage than we had any right to expect. not only that. and this is especially important. you have made us proud of your performance in the private walks of your life as well. i think you know what i mean now. there you have conducted yourself with a wisdom, maturity, good taste and a fine sense of responsibility to your business position. and soon, i think you'll see why it was worth it. it's now time to be specific. as long we were all going to be assembled here today i thought this would be the proper occasion to tell you before you read about it in the wall street journal that you have just become the first man, on the sunny side of 40, ever to be made a full partner of machardie and company. congratulations, alfred. congratulations. congratulations, mrs eaton. congratulations. now, then... mr machardie... gentlemen, i... i am deeply honored. i'm flattered by your generous bestowal of a partnership 'cause this is a day that i have been working toward with every fiber of my being. for like all well-brought-up american males i have always been aware of the fact that nothing is more important in life than the attaining of wealth and high position. and i can honestly say that i never allowed anything to sway me from my goal of achieving it. when business called, i never let personal responsibilities stand in the way. if anything ever threatened to interfere with the affairs of machardie and company, i always knew that there would only be one choice and i invariably made it. because i have truly learned, gentlemen, as mr machardie so gracefully put it, that it does take wisdom, maturity, good taste and a fine sense of responsibility to one's business position if one is to get ahead in this world. some men think in very small terms, gentlemen. if they find themselves married to a woman, who has been unfaithful to them, they dissolve the marriage just as if they owed no responsibility to the business firm for which they worked. and if they find genuine happiness with another woman they embrace it as if they had no consideration of their business colleagues. these men do not become successful, gentlemen. they do not become full partners at machardie and company. they become abject failures. they take their place alongside the millions of mediocrities who value a houseful of kids, a host of friends, photograph albums filled with trivial memories above all the truly important considerations of this world. with all due modesty, gentlemen, i feel that i have earned the position you have given me today. no one here deserves it more truly than i. - one second... - i'm not through yet. my first act as a partner will be to deliver my report on the nassau aeronautical situation. and after you've read it, i'm quite sure that my friend mr duffy there will want to issue another report on another subject namely, the newest partner of machhardie and company, the newest and possibly the shortest-lived. and, now, if you will excuse me i have other, less important business to attend to. - sorry. - what... - what is the meaning of this? - what's the matter with him? alfred. i know you've come to congratulate me. thank you. - you're making a fool of yourself. - that was terribly considerate of you last night when you were telling me "about the" "beautiful relation ship" "we could have" but you never mentioned the partner ship. because maybe i would've thought the partner ship had something to do with your new-found if somewhat unwholesome interest in our marriage. alfred. alfred, i want to talk to you. any further communication between you and me will be through legal channels. - alfred. go to her. it won't do you any good. if she's foolish enough, nothing will stop me from spending my life with her. i'll never give you a divorce. wait till you see the photographs mr duffy will release for public consumption. - what photographs? you won't be able to show your face in this city if you don't give me a divorce. how do you like them apples?