morning in paris the city awakes to the bells of notre dame the fisherman fishes the baker man bakes to the bells of notre dame to the big bells as loud as the thunder to the little bells soft as a psalm and some say the soul of the city's the toll of the bells the bells of notre dame listen. they're beautiful, no? so many colours of sound, so many changing moods. because, you know, they do not ring all by themselves. - they don't? - no, you silly boy. up there, high, high in the dark bell tower... lives the mysterious bell ringer. - who is this creature? - who? - what is he? - what? - how did he come to be there? - how? - hush. - ow. clopping will tell you. it is a tale... a tale of a man and a monster. dark was the night when our tale was begun - on the docks near notre dame - shut it up, will you? - we'll be spotted! - hush, little one. four frightened gypsies slid silently under the docks near notre dame four guilders for safe passage into paris. a trap had been laid for the gypsies and they gazed up in fear and alarm at a figure whose clutches were iron as much as the bells judge claude frollo! the bells of notre dame judge claude frollo longed to purge the world of vice and sin and he saw corruption everywhere except within bring these gypsy vermin to the palace of justice. - you, there! what are you hiding? - stolen goods, no doubt. take them from her. she ran! sanctuary! please, give us sanctuary! a baby? a monster! - stop! - cried the archdeacon. this is an unholy demon. i'm sending it back to hell, where it belongs. see, there, the innocent blood you have spilt on the steps of notre dame i am guiltless. she ran. i pursued. now you would add this child's blood to your guilt - on the steps of notre dame - my conscience is clear. you can lie to yourself and your minions you can claim that you haven't a qualm but you never can run from nor hide what you've done from the eyes the very eyes of notre dame and for one time in his life of power and control frollo felt a twinge of fear for his immortal soul - what must i do? - care for the child, and raise it as your own. what? i am to be saddled with this misshapen-- very well, but let him live with you in your church. - live here? where? - anywhere. just so he's kept locked away where no one else can see the bell tower, perhaps. and who knows? our lord works in mysterious ways. even this foul creature may yet prove one day to be of use to me and frollo gave the child a cruel name... a name that means "half-formed." quasimodo. nowhere is a riddle to guess if you can sing the bells of notre dame who is the monster and who is the man sing the bells, bells bells, bells bells, bells bells, bells bells of notre dame good morning. will today be the day? are you ready to fly? you sure? good day to try. why, if-if i picked a day to fly, oh, this would be it. the festival of fools. it will be fun, with jugglers and-and-and music and dancing. go on. nobody wants to be cooped up here for ever. man! i thought he'd never leave. i'll be spittin' feathers for a week. well, that's what you get for sleeping with your mouth open. go scare a nun. hey, quasi, what's goin' on out there? - a fight? a flogging? - a festival. - you mean the feast of fools? - uh-huh. - all right, all right! pour the wine and cut the cheese. it is a treat to watch the colourful pageantry of the simple peasant folk. boy, nothin' like balcony seats for watching the ol' f.o.f. - yeah, watchin'. - oh, look. a mime. hey, hey, hey, hey. what gives? aren't you going to watch the festival with us? - i don't get it. - perhaps he's sick. impossible. if 20 years of listenin' to you two... hasn't made him sick by now, nothin' will. but watching the festival of fools... has always been the highlight of the year for quasimodo. what good is watchin' a party if you never get to go? here, get away from me! go on, ya bunch of buzzards. he's not made of stone, like us. quasi, what's wrong? you wanna tell ol' laverne all about it? i-- i just don't feel like watching the festival, that's all. well, did ya ever think of goin' there instead? sure, but i'd never fit in out there. i'm not normal. oh, quasi, quasi, quasi. do ya mind? i would like to have a moment... with the boy, if it's all right with you! hey, quit beatin' around the bell tower. what do we gotta do? - paint ya a fresco? - as your friends and guardians... we insist you attend the festival. - me? - no, the pope. of course, you! it would be a veritable potpourri of educational experience. - wine, women and song. - you can learn... to identify various regional cheeses. - bobbin' for snails. - study indigenous folk music. - playin' dunk the monk! - quasi, take it from an old spectator. life's not a spectator sport. if watchin' is all you're gonna do... then you're gonna watch your life go by without ya. yeah, you're human, with the flesh and the hair and the navel lint. we're just part of the architecture, right, victor? yet, if you kick us, will we not flake? if you moisten us, do we not grow moss? quasi, just grab a fresh tunic and a clean pair of hose, and-- thanks for the encouragement, but you're all forgetting one big thing. - what? - my master frollo. - oh. - oh, yeah. - oh, dear, yes. w-well, when he says you're forbidden from ever leaving the bell tower... d-does he mean "ever" eve r? never eve r. and he hates the feast of fools. - he'd be furious if i asked to go. - who says ya gotta ask? - oh, no. - ya sneak out-- - it's just one afternoon. - i-l couldn't. - and ya sneak back in. - he'll never know you were gone. - and if i got caught. - better to beg forgiveness than ask permission. - he might see me. - you could wear a disguise. just this once. what frollo doesn't know can't hurt ya. - ignorance is bliss. - look who's talkin'. nobody wants to stay cooped up here for ever. - you're right. i'll go. - oh, boy ! - oh, hurrah! - i'll get cleaned up. - yea! - yes, sir! - i'll stroll down those stairs. - there ya go! i'll march through the doors and-- good morning, quasimodo. oh, good m-morning, master. dear boy, whomever are you talking to? my... friends. i see. and what are your friends made of, quasimodo? stone. can stone talk? - no, it can't. - that's right. you're a smart lad. now, lunch. shall we review your alphabet today? oh, yes, master. i would like that very much. - very well. "a"? - abomination. - " b"? - blasphemy? - "c"? - c-c-contrition. - " d"? - damnation? - " e "? - eternal damnation. - good. " f"? - festival. - excuse me? - f-f-forgiveness. - you said "festival." - no! you are thinking about going to the festival. i-it's just that you go every year. i am a public official. i must go. but i don't enjoy a moment. thieves and cut purses, the dregs of humankind... all mixed together in a shallow, drunken stupor. i didn't mean to upset you, master. quasimodo, can't you understand? when your heartless mother abandoned you as a child... anyone else would have drowned you. and this is my thanks for taking you in and raising you as my son? i'm sorry, sir. oh, my dear quasimodo. you don't know what it's like out there. i do. i do. the world is cruel the world is wicked it's i alone whom you can trust in this whole city i am your only friend i who keep you, teach you feed you, dress you i who look upon you without fear how can l protect you, boy unless you always stay in here a way in here remember what i've taught you, quasimodo. - you are deformed - i am deformed -and you are ugly -and l am ugly and these are crimes for which the world shows little pity - you do not comprehend - you are my one defender out there they'll revile you as a monster i am a monster out there they will hate and scorn and jeer only a monster why invite their calumny and consternation stay in here - be faithful to me - i'm faithful - grateful to me - i'm grateful do as l say obey -and stay in here - i'll stay in here you are good to me, master. i'm sorry. you are forgiven. but remember, quasimodo, this is your sanctuary. my sanctuary. safe behind these windows and these parapets of stone gazing at the people down below me all my life i watch them as l hide up here alone hungry for the histories they show me all my life l memorise their faces knowing them as they will never know me all my life i wonder how it feels to pass a day not above them but part of them and out there living in the sun give me one day out there a ill ask is one to hold for ever out there where they all live unaware what i'd give what i'd dare just to live one day out there out there among the millers and the weavers and their wives through the roofs and gables i can see them every day they shout and scold and go about their lives heedless of the gift it is to be them if l was in their skin i'd treasure every instant out there strolling by the seine taste the morning out there like ordinary men who freely walk about there just one day and then i swear i'll be content with my share won't resent won't despair old and bent i won't care i'll have spent one day out there hmm. uh-uh. you leave town for a couple of decades... and they change everything. excuse me, gentlemen, i'm looking for the palace of justice. would you-- mmm. i guess not. what are you trying to say to me? that the pants do not-- they fit. - ahh! - stay away, child. they're gypsies. they'll steal us blind. all right, gypsy. where'd ya get the money? - for your information, i earned it. - gypsies don't earn money. - they steal it. - you'd know a lot about stealing. troublemaker, huh? maybe a day in the stocks will cool ya down. come back here, gypsy ! - achilles, sit. - hey-- whoa! oh, dear, i'm sorry. naughty horse! naughty ! he's just impossible. really, i can't take him anywhere. get this thing off me! i'll teach you a lesson, peasant! you were saying, lieutenant? oh, uh-uh. c-c-captain! ow! at your service, sir. i know you have a lot on your mind right now, but the palace of justice? - make way for the captain. - go on, make way ! make way. everybody out of the way. you, make way for the captain! - make way. - make way now. come on, boy. achilles, heel! - stop. - sir? ease up. wait between lashes. otherwise the old sting will dull him to the new. yes, sir. ah, so this is the gallant captain phoebus, home from the wars. reporting for duty as ordered, sir. your service record precedes you, phoebus. i expect nothing but the best from a war hero of your calibre. and you shall have it, sir. i guarantee it. yes. you know, my last captain of the guard was, um... a bit of a disappointment to me. well, no matter. i'm sure you'll whip my men into shape. uh, thank you. it's a grea-- uh, tre-- uh, tremendous honour, sir. you've come to paris in her darkest hour, captain. it will take a firm hand to save the weak-minded from being so easily misled. - misled, sir? - look, captain. gypsies. the gypsies live outside the normal order. their heathen ways inflame the people's lowest instincts. and they must be stopped. i was summoned from the wars to capture fortune-tellers and palm readers? eh, the real war, captain, is what you see before you. for 20 years, i have been taking care of the gypsies... one by one. and yet, for all my success, they have thrived. i believe they have a safe have n within the walls of this very city. a-a nest, if you will. they call it the court of miracles. what are we going to do about it, sir? you make your point quite vividly, sir. you know, i like you, captain. shall we? oh, duty calls. have you ever attended a peasant festival, captain? not recently, sir. then this should be quite an education for you. come along. come, one come, all leave your looms and milking stools coop the hens and pen the mules come, one come, all close the churches and the schools it's the day for breaking rules come and join the feast of fools once a year we throw a party here in town once a year we turn all paris upside-down every man's a king and every king's a clown once again it's topsy-turvy day it's the day the devil in us gets released it's the day we mock the prig and shock the priest everything is topsy-turvy at the feast of fools topsy-turvy everything is upsy-daisy topsy-turvy everybody's acting crazy dross is gold and weeds are a bouquet that's the way on topsy-turvy day whoa! hey! are you all right? i-l didn't mean to. i-l'm sorry. oh, you're not hurt, are you? here, here, let's see. - no, no! n-no! - there. see? no harm done. -just try to be a little more careful. - i-l-- i-l will. by the way, great mask. topsy-turvy beat the drums and blow the trumpets topsy-turvy join the bums and thieves and strumpets streaming in from chartres to calais scurvy knaves are extra scurvy on the sixth of janu-ervy all because it's topsy-turvy day come, one come, all hurry, hurry here's your chance see the mystery and romance come, one come, all see the finest girl in france make an entrance to entrance dance la esmeralda dance - look at that disgusting display. - yes, sir. and now, ladies and gentlemen, the pièce de résistance! here it is the moment you've been waiting for here it is you know exactly what's in store now's the time we laugh until our sides get sore now's the time we crown the king of fools you all remember last year's king so make a face that's horrible and frightening - make a face that's gruesome as a gargoyle's wing - hey ! for the face that's ugliest will be the king of fools - why? - topsy-turvy - ugly folks, forget your shyness - topsy-turvy you could soon be called your highness put your foulest features on display be the king of topsy-turvy day boo! - bleah! - boo! - that's no mask. - it's his face! - he's hideous! - it's the bell ringer from notre dame! oh! oh! oh! ladies and gentlemen, don't panic. we asked for the ugliest face in paris, and here it is! quasimodo, the hunchback of notre dame! everybody once a year - we throw a party here in town - whoa! - where fools are king - once a year - we turn all paris upside-down - oh, what a king once a year the ugliest will wear a crown - girls, give a kiss - right here on topsy-turvy day we've never had a king like this and it's the day we do the things that we deplore on the other three hundred and sixty-four once a year we love to drop in where the beer is never stoppin' - for the chance to pop some popinjay - oh! and pick a king who'll put the "top" in topsy-turvy topsy-turvy mad-and-crazy upsy-daisy topsy-turvy day quasimodo! quasimodo! quasimodo! - you think he's ugly now? watch this. - quasimodo! quasimodo! quasimodo! oh! now that's ugly! - hail to the king! - oh! - oh! - bon appétit! whoa! where are you goin', hunchback? the fun's just beginning. master! master, please. help me! sir, request permission to stop this cruelty. in a moment, captain. a lesson needs to be learned here. don't be afraid. i'm sorry. this wasn't supposed to happen. you! gypsy girl! get down at once! yes, your honour. just as soon as i free this poor creature. i forbid it! how dare you defy me! you mistreat this poor boy the same way you mistreat my people. you speak of justice, yet you are cruel to those most in need of your help. - silence! -justice! mark my words, gypsy. you will pay for this insolence. then it appears we've crowned the wrong fool. the only fool i see is you! captain phoebus, arrest her. now, let's see. one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine. so there's ten of you and one of me. what's a poor girl to do? - witch craft ! - oh, boys. over here. - there she is! - get her! i'm free. i'm free. dang it. whoa! what a woman! whoa! find her, captain. i want her alive. yes, sir. seal off the area, men. find the gypsy girl, and do not harm her. i am sorry, master. i will never disobey you again. - oh! - stand back. stand back. stand back. he's coming. oh, he's hideous. i-- - maybe over there. - you, there. get away. - move on, peasant! - hmm. uh. oh, you! easy, easy. i-l-l just shaved this morning. - oh, really? you missed a spot. - all right, all right. j-just c-calm down. just give me a chance to apologise. for what? - that, for example. - you sneaky son of a-- ah, ah, ah. watch it. you're in a church. are you always this charming, or am i just lucky? whoa! candlelight, privacy, music. can't think of a better place for hand-to-hand combat. ooh! you fight almost as well as a man. funny, i was going to say the same thing about you. that's hitting a little below the belt, don't you think? no, this is. touché. ohh! i didn't know you had a kid. well, he doesn't take kindly to soldiers. eh, i noticed. ah, permit me. i'm phoebus. it means "sun god." - and you are? - is this an interrogation? i believe it's called an introduction. -you're not arresting me? -not as long as you're in here. i can't. - huh. you're not at all like the other soldiers. - thank you. so, if you're not going to arrest me, what do you want? i'd settle for your name. - esmeralda. - beautiful. and much better than phoebus, anyway. good work, captain. now, arrest her. claim "sanctuary." - say it! - you tricked me. i'm waiting, captain. i'm sorry, sir. she claimed "sanctuary." there's nothing i can do. then drag her outside and-- frollo, you will not touch her! don't worry. minister frollo learned years ago... to respect the sanctity of the church. all right, all right. i'm going. you think you've outwitted me... but i'm a patient man... and gypsies don't do well inside stone walls. what are you doing? i was just imagining a rope around that beautiful neck. i know what you were imagining. such a clever witch. so typical of your kind to twist the truth... to cloud the mind with unholy thoughts. well, no matter. you've chosen a magnificent prison. but it is a prison, nonetheless. set one foot outside... and you're mine. frollo's orders. post a guard at every door. don't worry, djali. if frollo thinks he can keep us here, he's wrong. don't act rashly, my child. you created quite a stir at the festival. it would be unwise to arouse frollo's anger further. you saw what he did out there, letting the crowd torture that poor boy. i thought if just one person could stand up to him, then w-- huh. what do they have against people who are different, anyway? you can't right all the wrongs of this world by yourself. well, no one out there is going to help, that's for sure. well, perhaps there's someone in here who can. i don't know if you can hear me or if you're even there i don't know if you would listen to a gypsy's prayer yes, l know i'm just an outcast i shouldn't speak to you still, l see your face and wonder were you once an outcast too god, help the outcasts hungry from birth show them the mercy they don't find on earth god, help my people we look to you still god, help the outcasts or nobody will i ask for wealth i ask for fame i ask for glory to shine on my name i ask for love i can possess i ask for god and his angels to bless me i ask for nothing i can get by but l know so many less lucky than i please help my people the poor and down trod i thought we all were the children of god god, help the outcast children of god you! bell ringer! what are you doing down here? oh! haven't you caused enough trouble already? wait. i-l want to talk to you. look, h-he's got a friend with him. yeah. maybe today wasn't a total loss after all. - a vision of loveliness. - the one in the dress ain't bad either. - hurray ! - way to go, quasi! - congratulations! - we knew you had it in ya. - got the girls chasin' ya already. - a-a-actually, l-- you mustn't run too fast, or she'll get away. yes, l-l-l-l know. that's what l-- give her some slack, then reel her in. then give her some slack, then reel her in. - then give her some slack-- - knock it off, hugo. she's a girl, not a mackerel. here you are. - i was afraid i'd lost you. - yes. well, l, uh-- i have chores to do. i-l-l-lt was nice seeing you again. - oh! - n-no, wait! i'm really sorry about this afternoon. i had no idea who you were. i-l would never in my life have pulled you... up on the... stage. - what is this place? - this is where i live. did you make all these things yourself? - most of them. - this is beautiful. oh, if i could do this, you wouldn't find me dancing in the streets for coins. - but you're a wonderful dancer. - well, it keeps bread on the table, anyway. - what's this? - oh! no, please! l-l-l-- i-l'm not finished. i-l-l still have to paint them. it's the blacksmith. and the baker! you're a surprising person, quasimodo. not to mention lucky. all this room to yourself. well, it's not just me. there's the gargoyles... and, of course, the bells. - would you like to see them? - yes, of course. wouldn't we, djali? follow me. i'll introduce you. i never knew there were so many. that's little sophia. and jeane-marie, anne-marie, louise-marie. - triplets, you know. - and who's this? - big marie. - hello! she likes you. would you like to see more? how about it, djali? - we'd love to. - good. i've saved the best for last. oh! i bet the king himself doesn't have a view like this. i could stay up here forever. - y-you could, you know. - no, i couldn't. - oh, yes, you have sanctuary. - but not freedom. gypsies don't do well inside stone walls. but y-y-you're not like other gypsies. they are evil. - who told you that? - my master frollo. he raised me. how can such a cruel man have raised someone like you? cruel? oh, no. he saved my life. he took me in when no one else would. i am a monster, you know. - he told you that? - look at me. - give me your hand. - why? -just let me see it. hmm. a long life line. oh, and this one means you're shy. hmm. hmm, mmm, mmm. - well, that's funny. - what? - i don't see any-- - any what? monster lines. not a single one. now, you look at me. do you think i'm evil? no! no-no. you-you are kind and good and-and-- and a gypsy. and maybe frollo's wrong about the both of us. - what did she say? - frollo's nose is long, and he wears a truss. ha! told ya. pay up. - oh, dear. - chump. you helped me. now i will help you. but there's no way out. there're soldiers at every door. - we won't use a door. - you mean, climb down? - sure. you carry him, i carry you. - okay. come on, djali. - ready? - yes. - don't be afraid. i'm not afraid. - now i'm afraid. - the trick is not to look down. - you've done this before? - no. - wow, you're quite an acrobat. - thank you. - whoa! - whoa! - check the alley ! - this way. - i hope i didn't scare you. - not for an instant. i'll never forget you, esmeralda. - come with me. - what? - to the court of miracles. - leave this place. - oh, no. i'm never going back out there again. you saw what happened today. no. this is where i belong. - all right, then i'll come to see you. - here? but the soldiers and frollo! - i'll come after sunset. - but at-at-at sunset... i ring the evening mass, a-and after that i clean the cloisters... a-and then i ring the vespers, and-- - whatever's good for you. - if you ever need sanctuary, this will show you the way. - but how? -just remember... when you wear this woven band, you hold the city in your hand. - keep your eyes open. - hurry. you must go. - check the alley. - yes, sir. - no one's here, sir. - no one here, sir. check the street. hi, there. i'm looking for the gypsy girl. have you seen her? whoa, whoa, whoa! easy ! no soldiers ! sanctuary! get out! - wait! all i want is to-- - go! - i mean her no harm. - go! you tell her for me, i didn't mean to trap her here... but it was the only way i could save her life. will you tell her that? - will you? - if you go. now ! i'll go. now, will you put me down, please? oh, and one more thing. tell esmeralda she's very lucky. - why? - to have a friend like you. hey, hey! there he is! - yeah! - ooh, wonderful! bravo! fantissimo! - ooh-hoo! you ejected that tin-plated buffoon with great panache. the nerve of him, snoopin' around here, tryin' to steal your girl. - my girl? - esmeralda. dark hair, works with a goat, remember? boy, i do. way to go, lover boy ! " lover boy"? oh, no, no, no, no. oh, don't be so modest. look, i appreciate what you're all trying to do. but let's not fool ourselves. " ugliest face in all paris," remember? i don't think i'm her type. so many times out there i've watched a happy pair of lovers walking in the night they had a kind of glow around them it almost looked like heaven's light i knew i'd never know that warm and loving glow though l might wish with all my might no face as hideous as my face was ever meant for heaven's light but suddenly an angel has smiled at me and kissed my cheek without a trace off right i dare to dream that she might even care for me -and as l ring these bells tonight - eh? my cold, dark tower seems so bright i swear it must be heaven's light you know l am a righteous man of my virtue l am justly proud you know i'm so much purer than the common, vulgar weak, licentious crowd then tell me, maria why l see her dancing there why her smouldering eyes still scorch my soul i feel her l see her the sun caught in her raven hair is blazing in me out of all control like fire hellfire this fire in my skin this burning desire is turning me to sin it's not my fault i'm not to blame it is the gypsy girl the witch who set this flame it's not my fault if in god's plan he made the devil so much stronger than a man protect me, maria don't let this siren cast her spell don't let her fire sear my flesh and bone destroy esmeralda and let her taste the fires of hell or else let her be mine and mine alone minister frollo, the gypsy has escaped. - what? - she's nowhere in the cathedral. - she's gone. - but how? i-- never mind. get out, you idiot. i'll find her. i'll find her if i have to burn down all of paris. hellfire dark fire no w, gypsy it's your turn choose me or your pyre be mine or you will burn god have mercy on her god have mercy on me but she will be mine or she will burn 'tention! good morning, sir. are you feeling all right? i had a little trouble with the fire place. - i see. your orders, sir? - find the gypsy girl. ten pieces of silver for the gypsy, esmeralda. lock them up. twenty pieces of silver for the gypsy, esmeralda. take them away. poor miller. he's never harmed anyone. frollo's gone mad. we found this gypsy talisman on your property. have you been harbouring gypsies? our home is always open to the weary traveller. - have mercy, my lord . - i am placing you and your family... under house arrest until i get to the bottom of this. if what you say is true and you are innocent, then you have nothing to fear. but we are innocent. i assure you. we know nothing of these gypsies. - burn it. - what? until it smoulders. these people are traitors and must be made examples of. with all due respect, sir, i was not trained to murder the innocent. but you were trained to follow orders. insolent coward . the sentence for insubordination is death. such a pity. you threw away a promising career. consider it my highest honour, sir. get him! and don't hit my horse. don't waste your arrows. let the traitor rot in his watery grave. find the girl. if you have to burn the city to the ground, so be it. sir, we have looked every where and still no sign of the gypsy girl. i had the entire cathedral surrounded. guards at every door. there was no way she could have escaped. unless-- - oh, it doesn't look good. - it's hopeless. absolutely hopeless. you're tellin' me. i'm losin' to a bird ! oh, but that poor gypsy girl. - i'm beginning the fear the worst. - i know. but now don't you say anything to upset quasimodo. - he's worried enough already. - yeah, you're right. - we better lighten up. - shh. shh. shh. here he comes. - now, just stay calm. - not a word . - easy does it. - stone-faced. any sign of her? oh, it's a lost cause! she could be anywhere! ln the stocks, in the dungeon, on the rack! oh! - nice work, victor. - no, he's right. - what are we gonna do? - what are you guys talkin' about? if i know esmeralda, she's three steps ahead of frollo... - and well out of harm's way. - do you really think so? hey, when things cool off, she'll be back. you'll see. - what makes you so sure? - because she likes ya. - we always said you were the cute one. - i thought i was the cute one. no, you're the fat, stupid one with the big mouth! what are you saying, exactly? take it from us, quasi. you got nothin' to worry about. yeah. you're irresistible. knights in shining armour certainly aren't her type. and those guys are a dime a dozen. but you, you're one of a kind. look. paris, the city of lovers is glowing this evening true, that's because it's on fire but still there's i'amour somewhere out there in the night her heart is also alight and l know the guy she just might be burning for a guy like you she's never known, kid a guy like you a girl does not meet every day you've got a look that's all your own, kid could there be two like you no way those other guys that she could dangle all look the same from every boring point of view you're a surprise from every angle mon dieu above she's gotta love a guy like you a guy like you gets extra credit because it's true you've got -a certain something more - you're aces, kid. you see that face ya don't forget it - want something new - that's you. for sure we all have gaped at some adonis but then we crave a meal more nourishing to chew and since you're shaped like a croissant is no question of she's gotta love a guy like you call me a hopeless romantic but quasi, l feel it she wants you so any moment she'll walk through that door for a guy so swell a guy like you with all you bring her a fool could tell it's why she fell - for you-know- who - we notice every string there you'll ring the bell you're the bell ringer when she wants ooh-la-la and she wants you-la-la she will disco ver, guy you're one heck of a guy who wouldn't love a guy like you you got a lot the rest have not gotta love a guy like you quasi? quasimodo? esmeralda? esmeralda, you're all right! i knew you'd come back! you've done so much for me already, my friend... but i must ask your help one more time. yes. anything. this is phoebus. he's wounded and a fugitive like me. he can't go on much longer. i knew he'd be safe here. please, can you hide him? this way. - esmeralda. - shh. shh. shh. you'll hide here until you're strong enough to move. great. i could use a drink. yes! feels like a 1 470 burgundy. not a good year. that family owes you their lives. you're either the single bravest soldier i've ever seen or the craziest. ex-soldier, remember? why is it, whenever we meet, i end up bleeding? you're lucky. that arrow almost pierced your heart. i'm not so sure it didn't. i knew i'd never know that warm and loving glow though l might wish with all my might no face as hideous as my face was ever meant for heaven's light frollo's coming. you must leave. quick, follow me. go down the south tower steps. be careful, my friend. promise you won't let anything happen to him. - i promise. - thank you. quick! we gotta stash the stiff. oh. oh, master. i-l-l-l didn't think you'd be coming. i am never too busy to share a meal with you, dear boy. i brought a little... treat. oh! is there something troubling you, quasimodo? - oh. no! - oh, but there is. i know there is. i think... you're hiding something. oh, no, master. i-- there's no-- you're not eating, boy. it's very good. thank you. seeds. what's different in here? nothing, sir. isn't this one new? it's awfully good. looks very much like the gypsy girl. i know you helped her escape! - but l-- - and now all paris is burning... because of you! she was kind to me, master. you idiot! that wasn't kindness! it was cunning! she's a gypsy ! gypsies are not capable of real love ! think, boy. think of your mother. but what chance could a poor, misshapen child like you have... against her heathen treachery? well, never you mind, quasimodo. she'll be out of our lives soon enough. i will free you from her evil spell. she will torment you no longer. what do you mean? i know where her hideout is, and tomorrow at dawn... i attack with a thousand men. we have to find the court of miracles before daybreak. if frollo gets there first-- are you coming with me? - i can't. - i thought you were esmeralda's friend. frollo's my master. i can't disobey him again. she stood up for you. you've got a funny way of showing gratitude. well, l'm not going to sit by and watch frollo massacre innocent people. you do what you think is right. what? what am l supposed to do? go out there and rescue the girl from the-- from the jaws of death... and the whole town will cheer like l'm some kind of a hero? she already has her knight in shining armour and it's not me. frollo was right. frollo was right about everything. i'm tired of trying to be something that l'm not. i must be out of my mind. phoebus! shh. i'm coming with you. - glad you changed your mind. - i'm not doing it for you. - i'm doing it for her. - you know where she is? no, but she said that this will help us find her. good, good, good. ah, great. what is it? - i'm not sure. - must be some sort of code. maybe it's arabic. no, no. it's not arabic. maybe it's ancient greek. "when you wear this woven band, you hold the city in your hand." - what? - it's the city. -what are you talking about? -it's a map. see. here's the cathedral and the rive r... -and-and-and this little stone must be-- -l've never seen a map that looks like-- look, l've lived up in the bell tower for 20 years and l think l know... - i've been in battles on four continents. - what the city looks like from above... - i've got a very good idea what a map looks like and this is not it. - and this is it! all right. okay. if you say it's a map, fine. it's a map. but if we're going to find esmeralda, we have to work together. - truce? - well, okay. sorry. no, you're not. - this looks like the symbol on the map. - but what does it mean? i'm not sure. i can make out an inscription... but it's going to take a few minutes to translate it. yes, well. or-or we could just, uh, go down those stairs. is this the court of miracles? offhand, l'd say it's the court of ankle-deep sewage. must be the old catacombs. cheerful place. kind of makes ya wish ya got out more often, eh, quasi? not me. i just want to warn esmeralda... and get back to the bell tower before l get in any more trouble. and speaking of trouble, we should have run into some by now. - what do you mean? - you know. a guard. a booby trap. or an ambush. well, well, well. what have we here? - trespassers ! - spies! - we're not spies! - you've got to listen-- don't interrupt me. you're very clever to have found our hideaway. unfortunately, you won't live to tell the tale. maybe you've heard of a terrible place where the scoundrels of paris collect in a lair maybe you've heard of that mythical place called the court of miracles - hello, you're there. - where the lame can walk and the blind can see but the dead don't talk so you won't be around to reveal what you found we have a method for spies and intruders rather like hornets protecting their hive here in the court of miracles where it's a miracle if you get out alive gather 'round, everybody. there's "good noose" tonight. it's a double header. a couple of frollo's spies. and not just any spies. his captain of the guard and his loyal, bell-ringing henchman. the justice is swift in the court of miracles i am the lawyers and judge all in one we like to get the trial over with quickly because it's the sentence that's really the fun any last words? that's what they all say. - now that we've seen all the evidence - wait! i object. - overruled! - i object! - quiet! - dang. we find you totally innocent which is the worst crime of all so you're going to hang stop! these men aren't spies. they're our friends. - why didn't they say so? - we did say so. this is the soldier who saved the miller's family... and quasimodo helped me escape the cathedral. we came to warn you. frollo's coming! he says he knows where you're hiding... and he's attacking at dawn with a thousand men. then let's waste no time. we must leave immediately. you took a terrible risk coming here. it may not exactly show, but we're grateful. don't thank me. thank quasimodo. without his help, l would never have found my way here. nor would l. after 20 years of searching... the court of miracles is mine at last. dear quasimodo. i always knew you would someday be of use to me. - no. - what are you talking about? - why, he led me right to you, my dear. - you're a liar. and look what else l've caught in my net. captain phoebus, back from the dead. another "miracle," no doubt. i shall remedy that. there'll be a little bonfire in the square tomorrow... and you're all invited to attend. - lock them up. - no. please, master. no, no. take him back to the bell tower. and make sure he stays there. the prisoner, esmeralda, has been found guilty of the crime of witch craft. the sentence: death! she is innocent! the time has come, gypsy. you stand upon the brink of the abyss. yet even now it is not too late. i can save you from the flames of this world and the next. choose me... or the fire. the gypsy, esmeralda, has refused to recant. this evil witch has put the soul of every citizen in paris... in mortal jeopardy. - come on, quasi. snap out of it! - your friends are down there. - it's all my fault. - ya gotta break these chains. i can't. i tried. what difference would it make? - but you can't let frollo win! - he already has. so, you're givin' up? that's it? these chains aren't what's holding you back, quasimodo. leave me alone. okay. okay, quasi. we'll leave you alone. after all, we're only made out of stone. we just thought maybe you were made of something stronger. for justice, for paris... and for her own salvation, it is my sacred duty... to send this unholy demon... back where she belongs. no! quasimodo! sanctuary! sanctuary! sanctuary! - captain. - sir? seize the cathedral. don't worry. you'll be safe here. charge! come back, you cowards! you men, pick up that beam. break down the door. alone at last. citizens of paris! frollo has persecuted our people, ransacked our city. and now he has declared war on notre dame herself! will we allow it? i think the cavalry's here. hey, isn't that... feeble? - doofus. - phoebus! sorry. sorry. harder! i'm-l'm free! i'm free! dang it! ready, aim, fire ! are you sure that's how it works? works for me. achilles, sit. get off me! fly, my pretties! fly, fly! put your backs into it! frollo, have you gone mad? i will not tolerate this assault on the house of god! silence, you old fool! the hunchback and l have unfinished business to attend to. and this time you will not interfere. we've done it, esmeralda! we've beaten them back! come and see. esmeralda, wake up. you're safe now. esmeralda? oh, no. oh, no. - you killed her. - it was my duty, horrible as it was. i hope you can forgive me. there, there, quasimodo. i know it hurts, but now the time has come... to end your suffering forever. now, now. l-- - listen to me, quasimodo. - no! you listen! all my life, you have told me that the world is a dark, cruel place. but now l see that the only thing dark and cruel about it is people like you. - quasimodo? - esmeralda! - she lives. - no! leaving so soon? look! up there. hang on! i should have known you'd risk your life to save that gypsy witch... just as your own mother died trying to save you. - what? - now l'm going to do... what l should have done 20 years ago! - whoa! - whoa! oh! hold on. hold on. and he shall smite the wicked... and plunge them into the fiery pit! quasimodo! quasi! no! three cheers... for quasimodo! so here is a riddle to guess if you can sing the bells of notre dame what makes a monster and what makes a man sing the bells, bells bells, bells whatever their pitch you can feel them bewitch you the rich and the ritual knells of the bells of notre dame don't you ever migrate? someday when we are wiser when the world's older when we have learned i pray someday we may yet live to live and let live someday life will be fairer need will be rarer and greed will not pay godspeed this fine millennium on its way let it come someday someday our fight will be won then we'll stand in the sun then that bright afternoon till then on days when the sun is gone we'll hang on and we'll wish upon the moon whoa-oh -and some days are dark and dreary - dark and dreary - seems we haven't got a prayer - haven't we got but a prayer but a prayer for something better is the one thing we all share - someday - someday - when we are wiser - when we are wiser - when the world's older - when the world is older - when we have learned - when we have learned - i pray someday we may yet - l pray - let live - live let live - to live - to live, to live, to live, to live -and let live -and let live someday - life will be fairer - life will be fairer - need will be rarer - need will be rarer - greed will not pay - no, no, no - godspeed - godspeed this fine millennium let it come wish upon a moon one day someday soon - one day - someday someday soon good night, everybody! subtitle by snitch company®