look at the birdie---look at the tree my girls are the prettiest known to the county that's all mr. durin, you've made us all models young ladies and gentlemen--- now, young ladies and gentlemen--- alright, you cloud-headed you've still 2 weeks before graduation let me remind you mr. durin's picture taking is completed you prepare yourself to mr. durin here some time this week an individual photograph to appear in the academy album miss kader---why are you standing there as if transpiring? ls it because you've left your books in the study at the expense of your splendid youth and innocence or is it because you've already entered into the miserable harvard womanhood there bitter with them? alright, stop all of that or stop blushing seanacy--- he's not here 0h, you mustn't see me hiding hide what? happy graduation, seanacy thank you happy graduation to you thank you l guess every thing, my dear lsn't that nice? we think the same thing lsn't that crazy? 0pen your present, johnny lt's all about raintree county lt's illustrated with colored maps--- statistics and history--- and place adventures lt's wonderful---just wonderful look---prominent citizens of raintree county there're over hundred of them johnny, someday your name will be the first on that list naturally 0pen yours, come on well, l think you'll like it--- it weighs 6 lbs 0h, l think baron the most magnificent man ever lived he seemed so much in need of a good woman to love and love him he never really found one yes--- there's a photograph inside--- l wrote something on the back of it johnny, it's beautiful you know what l think? l think someday you're going to be a great writer lt's just beautiful l've never heard such nonsense wasting 3 days write this what's this---a speech? lt's not nonsense lt's an honor to validate victoria lt goes to student first ranking with scholarship you know so much about it what did you ever valid---validate--- whatever it's called? pap validated victoria for the whole raintree county did you know that, mom? your father? preach the sermon of the most undesirable element waste the elegance that carries a lot of ground undesirable element which we desire--- you object pap elevating virtue welfare to people? what about my virtue welfare? why can't we get an inside pump? yeah, pap---what about an inside pump? that's not a joke what you learn at that school? you learn to have beer? your mother has pretty confused with heidelberg you learn to smoke like tobacco? like a chimney huh, your father likes that ever here he's german on the evil to tobacco and at the regular pond some do it chew and some do it smoke but some end up there like still pole l do offer the same you know anything else? hm ---l learn my mother is a flaw and what she said is hateful by the way she said it you never mount anything like---like that well, he ought to mount to something he's related to one of the greatest writers in the english language who's that? thomas carlyle naturally l think you're old enough to know joe, stop that foolishness well, l always thought one day there'd be a great man in the family great man? lf a great man is more than good to find a job and farm this land why ever l curse with such a burden? 0h---which reminds me how are you and nell getting along? nell is a fine girl and she is--- well, she's raintree county that means a lot of people like us--- people with roots a man should not only marry his beloved he should marry his region a good wife is a good start--- taught greatness pap, define greatness greatness? well, a great man is one who does good for others and that's the way your father qualified greatness? ha--- lf that great philosopher socrates were living today--- lf he were chosen sitting on that crack chewing tobacco--- that's america---that's greatness do l shock you? how can l shock such unenlightened ground heads? are you stunned, mrs. lydia gray? 0h, stop looking at me, child that's big brown cow eyes on mules like wax in the plate yeah do l shock you, miss nell kader? not as much as you like to 0h, there must be someone l shook how about you, johnny seanacy? l---relish it you don't want to shock me if you don't want shocking hm ---thanks, my boy now, about greatness--- we americans measure greatness in simple terms---in terms of money we're always hunting with a tree of life whose root is pure gold--- you have beautiful chest-like color hair, my dear but, there's another tree--- not of gold, but fulfillment--- whose flower is accomplishment and fruit is love they're the ways--- the ways of pleasantness and these parts all leave to peace find that tree and you'll find greatness ln every land, every language toils some of these trees and we lndiana have our miss about it that's the tree from which our county takes the name 0ne day l ragged a creature who was wandering on the shore of the lake in the middle of the county that creature was the man you all know--- johnny appleseed who spent his life traveling to the pioneer west planting apples in the wilderness among these thousands of seeds there was one seed he cherished--- not appleseed's, but exotic seed from china--- the seed of the golden raintree the creature searched the tiny earth--- the one place--- well, this one seed by taking root--- blandished someone from this county found that place but where that raintree was founded? nobody knows professor, how could such a tree grow on cement in the county? there's a swamp by the paradise lake there perhaps stands the tree lts sacred tonic trunk towering up in chill silence smacks deep in the middle of the county find that tree, boy, and you'll learn the secret of life yourself find it and become a hero of raintree county do you really think it there? why don't you have a real good see for yourself? professor, you still haven't answered the question do you really think it there? lt's there alright lt's there--- but the sacred fire is ready to be back if you look for it l'm sure you'll find it what'll happen if what you presume the raintree we don't find? you see before you a seeker who didn't find no man of the race as the pitiable and harmless creature you hold in vain alright, human---the show is over now, disappear---all of you attention, now easily slip away mrs. gray, it's my time with you, huh? nell, what if you and l going to find the raintree? professor said looking for the raintree appears to be business that asshole so even dressed for it? are you serious? certainly l am ---come on we mind it---find it johnny, not now why? you scared? ah---is he fooling? look at him what's up because of the tale told by that idiot--- that expert in that calculated sanity? are you coming? ls there the swamp---just because professor put a barge on you a year ago about the raintree? would you take care of this for me? lf you mind l take care this for you? you can go ahead just now sure, johnny---go right ahead huh, don't hurry back, brother l hate with a thing like this happen l'll never know how it happened yeah---it's really a shame well, sir---is it johnny seanacy? more like johnny appleseed ha---where have you been, sir? l'm walking get in, johnny---we'll take you home come on, johnny---get in there poor boy, you look half drowned lt's nearly all drowned you mean you look for that--- what you call it? yes, looking for the watch, galwood did you find it? no 0h, what a shame, pal 0r a pitiable harmless creature johnny, tell me what happened yes, brother---tell us all about it, huh? well boy, it's hard to tell us like this galwood, when you tell our folks about it--- huh? l mean, say, you get the story straight l entered the swamp like around here--- see it around that way what are you--- 0h, excuse me---you're quite right l entered the swamp this way and shove coming along that way that's how he came over the swamp ‘you find the raintree?' l said ‘no' he said, ‘l nearly all drowned' l figure that tried to cool his head--- but then she said what did she say? she said what a poor ‘pitiable harmless creature' what's going on, boys? 0h, hello, dr. seanacy--- we were just talking about your son johnny nice brew don't you know your body is temple of the spirit? and you defined and polluted with the devil brew you've had here why you say so, but--- why don't you come around to our next gathering, huh? come around to take a total afternoon to pledge l'll take the pledge right now 0h, no---we want men to take pledge only when they're sober but if they're sober, what's the sense having the pledge taken place? wait, man---l want to testify that l've been drunk for 2 weeks l buy beer, wine and most of them for friends l'm drunk here now this minute l can't find a man who can drink as much as l can walk straight and l can still foll any man around the county thank you now you just--- mark it day and hit town stand at any corner and listen to the chapter of referendum of voice--- didn't he? l hoped this subject under discussion was sufficiently elevated to engage my interest however--- professor, we were just talking about your prominent student--- speak of angels and hear their wings hm ---not that prominent student ah---mr. gray and his charming wife how the entire world of possibility did that chilly january win such a blithesome man? that reminds me--- do you know the story about the old judge who married an 18-year-old lady? sure you'd excuse me ha--- 0h, pap--- ha--- wow, here comes the hero of raintree county l guess he'll go again for the raintree ha--- bob is here shitting his big fat mouth again yes, man---if you really want to be hero in raintree county, all you gonna do ls play the flash burgins for the bare-foot race flash burgins? so you're johnny seanacy could be---who wants to know? do you hear that boy? should l tell this child who l am? why don't you tell him, flash? son, you'll give me great satisfaction and relegation to introduce to you and these handsome intelligent dummies that l'm the gentleman who's better known as flash burgins, fast runner in raintree county never heard who he is listen, child---he's me l certify most of the runners in the north and the south before they're qualified for the 0lympic games l'm half the horse and half the asshole in their spare time l buzz more skulls and rag more campus and chase more ladies--- that's true and there's a fine jump this year now little boy like you should stand by and watch now who are you? l'm johnny seanacy and l can outrun any mule in the county come on, lad---what are you waiting for? l race you right now alright race--- race--- race--- how about the church over there--- alright? right, any place you say 0n your march---1 ---2--- stop it what for? put your coat on, johnny what for? they're not racing this man burgins here is afraid to run you in regular official because he's frightened of losing money here's hat on somebody l give you 1 for 2 note you're just talking--- you know no one here can match you lf someone came up here with hard coins you'll try to wake out try me and see gold? my yarn is type of a teacher--- a molder for the young mind this is done this is not much, but it's the mind l mold l'll cover---me and the side kick l'll postpone it to july 4 l'll take a bite of that myself strange, johnny---but this is a sure win see you in the race time, johnny, and l promise not to beat you for a while until then we'll see why did you do a thing like that? well--- excuse me lt has been 5 years since anyone laid a bet against flash burgins now, if you can beat flash, we'd clear the biggest bit of money ever waged in raintree county fine--- what happens if l don't and lose all your money? my dear boy, l've certain well-laid plans which at the moment l'm at liberty as to what do l vote, not even to you--- dear boy my plan is called for a certain--- concentration of capital l don't know, professor--- sometimes you bother me what are you up to? not more than 20 ways---l guess l can now, you relax for the athletic order ahead you're going to win the race you're going to be the hero in raintree county l got to go and your beautiful girl would be the carnival feat on your sun-colored lucks gonna be fine---don't move here we go look at the birdie---look at the tree my girls are the prettiest known to the county alright, you can relax thank you very much 0h 0h, it's you alright, you're next 0h, yeah---sure stand over there please now stand properly still hurry, siona sure 0h, put this gown on let me help you look at the camera please please look pleasant here we go look at the birdie---look at the tree my girls are the prettiest known to the county that's it that's all? huh, how long it's supposed before--- l mean l was just wondering how many days before l can... maybe 2 or 3 days 2 or 3 days? 0h, that's fine--- ah, l'll see you in 2 or 3 days wait for me 0h, l didn't mean to scream l'm afraid you'll find me very unlady obviously l like unladies l saw you down the street ready to run--- what happened? well, me---postponed to july 4 you're a fast runner? pretty fast l'm pretty fast runner myself well, how about a race some time? you don't believe me, do you? you'll be surprised how fast l can run l'm as good as you can you're johnny seanacy? say that again johnny seanacy--- l found out from the phone book professor boy---you're definitely ready to graduate l was never so embarrassed why? because l screamed l enjoyed it this is where l live you live here? hm --- come on, siona---you slow as a swan l'll be saying goodbye now you live by yourself? l have 2 nigger girls to do the work l love this house l just opened it up again my dad loved it too he was senator for louisiana and new 0rleans before some people thought he could be president l mean president of the united states we had---that what we had before daddy died--- the plantation in new 0rleans we had another one outside bubana when my aunt died last year--- l inherited this place my name is susana johnny, you want to say something? 0h, no--- you're cute---johnny seanacy that july 4 race---what happens when you win? well, according to a friend of mine--- lf l win, a beautiful girl will place a wreath of olive leaves on my sun-colored lucks l like to be that girl maybe can be arranged 0h, it can be arranged alright--- l'll arrange it you know l think l'm going to take my picture too there's always nice surprise--- huh, what did l say? nothing, galwood--- that was made for johnny 0h johnny thank you, ed nell ah, johnny, there you're--- l'm looking all over for you how are you feeling? nervous what you need is calm down--- you nerve is over juice good luck, johnny--- l got a payback on you thank you---l'll do my best how about a little drink? 0h, l used to lemonade lemonade? lemonade is something that will give you ulcer what l mean was how about a little drink of bourbon bourbon---me? now, don't get excited--- all l mean was just--- even the present president would agree the whole time l put it in, jack a draw--- god bless you how about a little drink? this old horse--- he doesn't think l shouldn't touch any draught just to be sociable well, l'll give if you both drink alright splendid l've never been drinking in my life what's going to happen l come out here--- son, it'd be good for you to turn up those muscles that's give you extra--- forget about it, professor l forgot this boy can never win yet--- burgins, l'll match you drink for drink 0h, come on let's be sociable what to be, boy? you name it and l order ah, what do we get? how about a little bourbon? there's a couple of bottles right out of steer---a bottle for each boy ah, just a minute--- let's have the drinks poured from the same bottle why? l just don't want any trick monkey do around here what are you--- we just have a bottle for each they'll drink from the same bottle wow, you don't mean to say--- kid me a fool, professor that's a new situation that you may do yourself may l---? professor, l don't trust you--- you got sneaky eyes lt's tea---cold tea and you---you must've thought it really a good thing and fill it right up alright, man new, let's get started johnny there's nothing to it---nothing to it come on---just fill the glasses johnny, you're unable--- how do you feel now? l feel fine 0h, that's enough gentlemen, this boy is not used to strong alcohol just to be sociable professor, don't worry about me there's nothing to it, really stand back---give the boy a chance good work to jack---alright to youth new gentlemen, stand back---give me room how you like that? l tell you l've got another trick l want to show you watch this---give me a hand alright, boys---watch this that's enough---dry him off that's only god would choose he's out there now--- laughing to beat the kid how dare you play a trick like this on your best friends? and poor johnny here who never drinks in his life 0h, he'd have been killed fresh flash is there hours ago he bid me to chase---yelling for action you'd better get johnny out there johnny, this is it---are you ready? yes, let's go on ready 0h, l'd better put on my pants hello, boys---help yourself when l wanna voice, you wanna be set by hailer like this l wonder a cannon johnny can hear it lt'd be 1 , 2, 3 and bang now remember, johnny l got 100 bet on you---100 dollars--- good luck where's it? ls that we end up? yeah how about the girls down there? you think too close? they'll kill themselves 0nce again, boys alright---quiet everybody 0n your march---1 ---2---3 who won---? we've done it---we won 250 dollars to me is 150 where's flash? the king is there---long live the king johnny nice to see you around here quiet voice you've beautifully done it johnny seanacy, allow me to present to you on behalf of all these people present this wreath to the--- victory belongs to this boy what about that race you and l going to run? l wouldn't have a chance 0h you, dear boy, are the wicked pagan spirit and you're the poor the financer today is the day of high hopes and fair promises ah, l wonder the worker of the age professor, you've enough zidar hm, not enough---l gonna catch up with it l've to protect my league why don't you run away and play with this charming ambassador's in the land of magnolia? let's go swimming---come on what? you're sick of that thing but you can think anything ah, life---liberty and pursuit of happiness 0h, l gonna hate to leave here leave---when are you leaving? tomorrow---l'm going back to new 0rleans you can't stay for a while? 0h, you're sweet but you can come to visit me some time you'd love there for sure you have to go? well, l only came up here to resettle the house l was going to sell it--- but l think l'll hold it for a while when you'll be back? l don't know---maybe never tell me about the raintree where did you hear about that? do you think you'll never find it? you don't think it a joke? no, l believe it l'll be looking for the raintree always supposing you do find it--- 0h, it opens all locks--- it heals all wounds yes---maybe l'll never see you again nell nell--- lt's silly---you've been running away from me for weeks why don't you talk to me? you weren't so anxious to talk to me when that girl was in town what do you mean? are you mad just because l saw her a couple of times a couple of times? huh, did you like that book of poetry l gave you? yeah no, baron was immoral--- he was a libertine he was a great writer l think being a good man is far more important maybe a writer has a lot of experience 0h, so that's it---so that's what you're doing with susana johnny seanacy---baron of raintree county that's right---l'm a genius maybe someday l'll write about what? about the sullen tales l've known? no, l think l'll write raintree county--- about the lndians when they first came here... about johnny appleseed and the raintree--- the raintree? that's another thing, johnny that day you went chasing the raintree l was waiting for you l didn't know where you had gone--- but l knew the swamp l'm sorry---l guess l didn't realize you just didn't realize anything johnny---to some people you're a man of great importance your exact location is of intense concern to---to some people l'd better go, johnny not yet johnny please johnny, l'd better go lt's getting late---we'd better go 0h, no---you don't who's that? why don't you move up here and find out? so it was you who would you think it was? you know anything about this? you got anything to do with this? doing that? the professor---he ran off with lady gray lf he is still in the county, he'll get a chance out of thousand to get alive we've got hundred men looking for her nobody can come to this county and run off with another man's wife lt occurs to me, young man, you're a friend of this--- this man's but a thing like this--- there're no nobbles whose side are you on? l'm taking nell home no, l'll see you tomorrow alright, young man---l'm still waiting for your answer you'll get yourself a long wait--- l'm going home hello, johnny and what have you been up to? where's lydia? wonderful woman---l did try carrying her away from her husband that's the day you won your race where's she? she had missed the train at the 3-mile junction 0r we'd have been hundred miles away by now as l got back to the buggy, 3 men with guns marched up to the platform l grasped the situation once thereon--- but that was only the beginning 0n the way back, the first man l met asked if l heard about the man who ran off with a man's wife l'm a stranger here myself, l said 0n the road, l met a troop of camions caring for the station--- where's lydia? she's home right now waiting for mr. gray l took her straight back home as for myself, l took off like a street beggar l guess you think l'm a bit scoundrel right, johnny? l don't know---l don't know what l think don't think too bad of me l suppose the heroic thing to be done would be to stick around and let the outraged husband discharge his fury with a shotgun but l hate that sanctimonious warthog too much to give him the satisfaction besides, l was scared but one thing, johnny--- nothing happened---absolutely nothing and that's the end just for it all lf there's any phantom to be hanged--- the county would say there might be some truth in it alright l just managed the whole thing badly did you? come on where are we going? you got to get out of the county well, good idea---it occurred to me johnny, why not up with us? study my example--- get out of raintree county--- someone like you with a shotgun not me---you l guess you're right (ln french) good for you--- good for us both there he is come on--- get on the train goodbye, dear boy--- go on for great better things get on the train wee want him where you've been, mr. gray? your wife has been home for the past 12 hours nothing happened---absolutely nothing he's a liar you want to shoot me and later find out he was right? what are you afraid of? you want him ---you take him l'm going home you get out of my way, boy--- or l'll cut your eyes out goodbye, dear friend remember me as a man who loves raintree county--- but just happens to lose most of the people in it johnny johnny, l had to come back--- l'm going to have a baby johnny, this letter was left on the door steps for you 0h, thank you johnny, this marriage you announced--- sit down l can't honestly say l'm entirely approved specifically--- but, under the circumstances of necessary haste with which you've gone into--- l know---l certainly understand anyway, l think you're doing a manly thing l hope the young lady achieves what she appears to be judge not the year be not judged l know, sir marry her, son---and be happy thank you you need any money? l don't know---l don't think so right now 0h, there was a letter that came for you--- l---l have it here 0f course hello hello, johnny l got your letter johnny, as one for whom you want for perfection, l just want to say good luck and wish you all the happiness in the world and the poem you wrote for me and the picture you gave me--- l just feel that l want to return it l thought maybe you want it back l really don't want to give it up lt's just that---everything has changed and l don't mean anything to you we don't mean anything to each other anymore nell---l'm sorry lt's not your fault, johnny--- everybody knows that lt was july 4--- you drank all that whisky and you went out to the race no, l was responsible---nobody else that's so much like you, johnny why do you have so much conscience? maybe that's why l love you johnny, l love you so much did that l wish l didn't---l wish l--- the words of lawrence baron on the back you wrote for me--- ‘forever love and before ever..-' still forever--- l wish you well you're right, mrs. seanacy l like the river---it even smells good l really don't understand it would you smell mouse like it too? now, there's something l understand all you've to do is go south once and you'll love it well, a north yanky to the south is not so easy to understand you ever read ? ? l've married an abolitionist, have l? that's skeleton in my classic now, you mustn't joke about it are they friendly? anyway, the worst thing--- has ever been the abolition like what? that cabin negro blooded---negroid just one little tiny drop in the person makes him all negro they just can't tell either ls it gonna be room for 2 of us? lt's only sort of a hobby--- l'm taking with me wherever l go this is jimmy---l've had it the longest where did you get it? he needs a bath 0h, johnny---forgive me my foolishness 0h, l do love you so when l'm with you, l feel like nothing can happen to me as long as l have you you won't let anything happen to me will you, johnny? enjoy yourself, johnny? very much then what do you think about the ever-glooming south? as l said, l love it---l do that sounds general, isn't it? what you really think of it? well, sir---l think highly of it l'm only worried by all this aristocrat succession succession? remember, young man--- union belongs to those who keep breath in the cabinet what cousin said means, johnny--- if succession comes--- the north should succeed hear him say--- sir, one thing you must understand johnny is a poet he stays 2 months with his girlfriend--- therefore, he loves south l'm not so sure you prove it that's because he's a moralist you won't get straight answers from him he'll draw up opinion for another name he's also a dreamer--- a seeker for the meaning of life with capital wealth sir, your search has ended stay here with us and help us to build our dream we have thousand dreams for a great republic on this soil of merit with it's pretty homes and most beautiful---women 0h, sam ---you're wonderful you shelf like some golden pitfalls cousin sam ---johnny doesn't like slavery does johnny like to waive slaves in the north? johnny doesn't like misery anywhere--- north or south here comes misery now---my wife we're talking about the north, my dear--- slaves in the north--- sam, you're boring--- l'll borrow your husband for a while excuse me don't look so serious here old men can only play their dream of gold--- lt's not that---l'm counting cousin johnny, are you ever in love? huh? l mean---were you ever really---in love? cousin dear, l'm in love you know l love the way you say that you did such a noble sound in your precious accent--- frankly, johnny---cousin susana just isn't the right type for you you're an attractive young man 0h, susana, why disposed--- she didn't marry down here? l guess supposing down here people know too much about her don't you hear me? you've borrowed my husband long enough--- cousin barbara--- l reclaim him 0f course l must've been beautiful 0h, it was, johnny lt was all white when l was a little girl marble house was right above over there johnny, our neggars built it by hands the furniture came from france lt was so beautiful the tower columns shed the veranda l used to play there when it rained the garden was so lovely cool with roses and lilies how this fire started? no one knows really? that was my daddy and mama buried l was lucky to get out alive l slept next to henrietta at this room she was burnt too who was henrietta? she was my dearest friend--- she was a great lady how old were you? three---maybe 4 and you could remember it all? yes---no, l don't know l can't remember what l exactly saw l was told later on 0h what's the matter? these used to be a little cabin over there l guess it's gone this is where they buried her, johnny 0h, you can't imagine how lovely she was she took care of me--- she was a great lady l'm not ashamed to say that although she was a negro 0ne of these slaves? 0h, no---she came from cuba that was where l was born---havana daddy was there for several years and then came back with us lt's funny to think of her now think of her lying down there if she's lying down there what do you mean ‘if she's lying down there' ? lt's sort of family scandal some people say the graves were messed my aunt said she wasn't sure if it was her henrietta sleeping in mama's grave l---l don't understand l love you, henrietta---l love you dear johnny, l know you don't understand there was everything to me because of her l was never alone and now---do you feel someone watching over us? just nobody here how do you know? johnny, about this---this neggar girl--- l---l lied to you about it lt---it never happened why did you tell me this? you asked me about it well, you don't think my mama--- you don't think my mama would ever allow me to--- l---l was always with my mama--- l was always by her side why---why she loved me so much? she never allowed me out of her sight l---l was always with her susana---should we go home? good evening, l'm looking for mr. durex come on in, dear right in here thank you bobbie johnny, how do you know l was here? barbara said you were with sam --- she said you were here listen---l like to talk to you can you wait there? we'd drive miles home when we could talk then no let's go in there would you excuse us? johnny, how about a drink? bobbie, what's all about susana's family and the fire? well, it's just old family scandal--- johnny---but it's pretty gluesome you see the day they had trouble to identify a man in the, fire but a woman and the woman was another matter and one of them was a lady of color why you go after that? l like to know well it all began when susana's mother--- you know l don't know she went insane susana's father gave up everything to take care of her at last he gave us his business to seek her sense but what they tried was too far gone she couldn't be cured at all lt was in cuba that's where he met another woman what about the fire? there were some wrangles--- 2 bodies were found together so? so it looks like something funny had been going on they might've been killed before the fire l mean everybody else got up and away why didn't they? that's the question of identification--- which woman was that woman? which? there was talk of susana's father with the woman who was found in shock the woman---the woman--- who was found with? l exaggerated, johnny anyway, the thing was hers--- it was better the way as it was 0f course, there was a lot of talks--- you know how woman talk in this family--- women are worse the most l don't want to scare you, boy but you don't need a private life because you've a beautiful wife that's the worth of it alright, what happened after the fire? well, nothing much 0h, the excitement susana had taken and disappeared for 2 or 3 days l forget now they found her finally she was in henrietta's cabin all the time and susana had to go up to her aunt's place in pennsylvania that's all l know about it does anybody else know? there's just one person--- who? you've to wait until she's ready to tell you not susana? lt's susana susana was 3 years old 0h, my boy---you think you marry a child? well, at time of the fire, my cousin susana was 9 years old dear, l got it away from here alright, johnny---where should we go? could we go to europe? no, l like to go back to raintree county but why? we've plenty of money honey, l---l got to get a job--- l got to work that's why we should be back home--- so the 2 of you can be resting johnny, l haven't been very honest with you you haven't? when l told you l was going to have a baby, l lied l'm not going to have a baby l lied because l wanted you more than anything l ever wanted in my life because l---somehow l just--- 0h, l don't know darling, one thing you must understand--- l love you very much you'd never leave me, wouldn't you--- johnny? hm ---l'll never leave you l love you---let's go home 0h, yes---johnny well, miss nell kader---shame on you while here my husband and l have been home settled this time you have yet to call on us with your prettiest escape l leave the breeding to you how do you like here in raintree county? well, l hardly feel this town so small anymore whatever you do for the day? l take walks how really? you tell me who you walk with l'm interested in all aspects of real life you won't be interested in me--- l walk alone l just don't understand here you're still young, you know--- and pretty as a swan are you interested in man? perhaps well, good---l just talked to you like a school teacher--- like johnny you know, miss kader--- a school teacher almost has remote little habits like read and write and mess around in the classroom anyway, l did want you to know you're always welcome any friend of my husband's is a friend of mine and johnny always did tell me all his best friends in raintree county you're the best---goodbye hello, johnny 0h, where you pop up from? no place special galwood asked me to marry him mr. seanacy--- hello he's going to politics--- what do you think, johnny? l mean you're always--- being my best friend l think galwood will make a fine politician you know that's not what l mean mr. seanacy---a few months in your class l learned more about poetry and politics and life and--- that l've all the time going to school the students seem to enjoy creeping up on me they're all in love with you teachers get falling in love with is not occupation, right? me was different--- l fell in love with the student so did l all l thought was a mistake, wasn't it? she tricked you into marriage, johnny--- she wasn't pregnant lt's one thing people around here can't do without denial l'm sorry, johnny---l'm so ugly no, susana and l are going to have a baby in april l want you to know you're my best friend well, l'm very happy for both of you--- until then, goodbye how do you feel? 0h, l've trouble to sleep again--- that dream --- why you got up so early? doesn't it school election day? l got to vote you were out so late last night--- speech---lincoln? l wasn't the only one up there the speech was fine thank god when jones delivered it wise you want to read it? come in morning---mr. and mrs. seanacy good morning, siona galwood vs jones--- l always wonder what's the beast for l give you one guess galwood vs jones--- youngest candidate ever to seek office in lndiana state legislature last night rounded up his program campaign at 3-mile junction his enthusiastic denunciation of teachers who used schools as platforms to corrupt the youths of raintree county--- those who stand on slavery question were most violent that jones declared the best look to democracy they only wanted to shit a certain young teacher who instructs the young, inflammatory and seditious about the abolition includes a domestic arrangement of his own home to colored people the status with respect to freedom whose protection of abolitionists claims monopoly as--- who said who's? questionable can you guess who's talking about? but l think he's right l think politics like charity should begin at home that's exactly what l intend to begin what about daisy and siona? what about them? honey, you lied to free those girls and get rid of them but they've been with our family since they were born they'd be unhappy any place else l just don't understand you, johnny--- after having insulted me l just don't see how can you go on being an abolitionist susana, you're not south now--- you can't have your slaves here johnny, l wish you wouldn't pick on me--- l don't feel well honey, l'm not picking on you l---l just don't want slaves in my house alright, l wish we can get away from here l don't like this place l just assume limited as a goat in the hole what anybody in the south ever did to hurt you? you know how nice and sweet they were and how much they loved it jesus, l just don't see how you can support a man like lincoln---lincoln why you despised lincoln so much? l mean it---that's well-known fact you must've heard about it what's about the fact? l mean the fact lincoln has neggar blood in him you don't believe it? as galwood or jones dear, all l ask you just get rid of the girls--- pay them wages and do whatever you want you don't love me... you never did love me you hate me because l'm southern you've been asking questions about me dear, do what you want but if those girls are not free by tonight, l won't come back to this house hello, johnny hello ls it a wonderful victory? you mean galwood or lincoln? l haven't thought galwood around here you know sometimes being sick of people is just afraid of people you were so wrong with what you said about galwood l think galwood would make a terrible politician he was born in the year of 1835 with a little capital he built in 1860 that's funny l also think he'd make a terrible husband how's he with you now? just fine good now you look---you look older l'm older how's everything with you? fine--- good well, l guess it's good time ready to say goodbye say what? say goodbye goodbye? hm --- l'm going to lndianapolis to live with my---my sister l'm sorry---l mean l'm sorry to hear you go goodnight, johnny goodnight surprise---hello, our host johnny boy johnny---it's for you, honey lt's a party for you--- galwood helped me do it dear--- a drink, johnny? thank you, no 0h, come on, pal--- l made this punch myself--- old lndian recipe---pure corn and a little bit of lime 0h, aren't you gonna congratulate me on the personal triumph for my stand on slavery? you don't stand, galwood you point like a bird set upon opportunity well, to you l'll turn any shoe l admire your humility darling quiet, everybody--- l've an announcement to make daisy, siona---come here that's a wicked speech, galwood--- l'm ashamed of you don't miss that, honey l'd slap my own grandma better than the abolition of the poll quiet, everybody--- l---l want you all to know l don't keep any slaves in this house ln order to support mr. lincoln's election, l'll free both these girls from now on, they'll work for me for wages now we've all sisters under the skin siona--- mr. seanacy, we'll look after your guests honey what are you doing---? now you find me, johnny go on beat me---hurt me you're too good for me, johnny honey 0h, johnny--- what---what did l do wrong? you didn't do anything wrong, honey l love you, johnny l can do anything for you l love you, johnny you know---you know what? why don't we just start up getting rid of these damn dolls? yes, johnny---yes you too, honey ah--- now, maybe we have a little privacy around here dear where's that doll? go to bed no no, l must find it--- l came up here to find it you don't remember we got rid of the dolls long time ago? come on what's the matter? what's the matter, darling? 0h, what's wrong? l keep having awful dreams the fire---johnny, l'm scared susana, get some sleep, okay? 0h, johnny what's wrong? what's the matter? wrong---l hate it come don't worry l'm going---l'll be right back lt hurts l'll be right back hurry mom, it happened---can you come over? yes can you come right over? 0f course, johnny--- now you pick a bad day what's going on here? you haven't heard? they've attacked on us that's for sure anything l'm not so sure now say the americans will never fight each other we'll settle our difficulties peacefully you mean right over? yes, johnny baby--- come on every red-blooded boy in raintree county got into the fight i'll be pig tide, hog tide--- skined and stretched on the border--- jack seanacy flash? good to see you how are you? fine corporal, we want get in the war you want get in the army, the first thing you'll do is disarm look, you jerk--- if you look me the same right, will you write me down now? i'll run and get a pencil wear a blue suit like that with a couple of rifles, l look like somebody flash---susana is having a baby right now well, is that so? don't you worry, jack with me at this war, it'd be over with your kid house broke your boy has had same guts as we had back to 1846 you got to taste the gulf of mexico by july 4, huh? right l don't know everyone talks juice and vinegar of this war all we've done is lost for something that's for raintree county just the same, war is--- war is the most monstrous thing to man's solution anything idea worth anything isn't worth fighting for mr. seanacy, your mom said you can go in now fastest man in raintree county hm --- hello lt's a boy yeah, it's a boy where was the other, johnny? what? there's another---it isn't right dear, just your imagination no, there was another---one with that doll did they throw it away, johnny? no, dear are you absolutely sure? absolutely dear, do get some sleep johnny what? i don't want you to go i'll be right here you won't go, will you? where do i go? you won't go to the war? you won't go to the war no, dear---i won't go to war grant besleges vlcksburg seige 0f vicksburg enters 35th day he'll make a runner like his paw well, another little town will be made reluctantly immortal by bloodshed i got to have another bottle of whisky with your father to remove from battle seems to settle my stomach what did you have for your dinner? no, it's the disease--- the disease is called ‘civilian paralysis' l know---l guess l must be the only civilian under 40 in the whole county you got good reason, johnny i wonder there're those you don't galwood would beat for good by syd jones for instance 0h, he's a big man in the state council maybe he could do better now a hundred thousand happy boys have died they couldn't spare me either galwood is a copper-head daddy, what's copper-head? well, l'll tell you later how's your wife, johnny? she's alright hey hello, johnny this girl is jewel she is lt's something about a few years in a big city she left here a school girl for sweetness in life she returned a full-pledged newspaper woman for justice in the crowd come on now---let's get back to work nell, how does it feel being back here and free able? hm ---l like here better than lndianapolis--- it's a copper-head town daddy, what's copper-head? well, a copper-head is someone who lives in the north but sides with people living in the south you're still teaching--- still searching for the raintree? that seems a long time ago, doesn't it? you still think there's raintree out there somewhere? l don't know let's go and see? much too paralytic--- l know why you don't want to look for it you're afraid you'll find it 0nce upon a time, a war long time ago--- a little boy--- daddy, when mommy would come back? l think she'll be back soon anyway, so there was the little boy and he--- there's mommy now my darling--- have you missed me today, jimmy? have you missed me very much? mommy, l was afraid you're afraid for mommy--- isn't that sweet? we don't leave you anymore, darling mommy is home---now you get to sleep lt's way to your bed time--- sleep on luck, good boy goodnight, darling goodnight, jimmy where were you all day? now johnny, you know very well where l was l do? l was in lndianapolis lndianapolis? as l very said on my note, l just went there a few hours for shopping what note? here---at the dress up that's it---you see? l can't find it, dear l can't find the letter but l put it there, you know don't worry, dear--- it really doesn't matter you don't think they took it, do you? 0h, l must find it before it's too late why don't you find it tomorrow morning? no, if l not find it now--- what did you have written on it? well, l---l wouldn't tell you--- l've promised not to you believe me, don't you? yes, l do you see, l have a great loss--- dearest thing in the whole world--- daddy jimmy, my precious little jimmy daddy--- alright what are you doing? lt's the house, don't you see? something terrible might happen to him what do you mean ‘something' ? nothing gonna happen to him ---you crazy? l'm sorry, susana jimmy doesn't like me he loves you you can't expect him to understand everything l don't understand either l thought children were supposed to create a boundary between parents l think jimmy has created a great barrier that's not true yes, it is, you 2 belong together--- you gonna part from me l don't think so 0h, l wish only something l could do--- l gonna have something--- dear, maybe you tell me what happened the night of the fire lt makes no different now--- don't you see, johnny? things can't get better between us lt's nobody's fault--- but it's such a pity 0h, johnny, help me---help me--- you always help me what can l do? what happened that night? l know something about that fire--- nobody else knows l never told anyone lt started not long before the fire when henrietta had been away l was very excited the night when she came back l laid in the big house--- l couldn't sleep l wanted my doll jimmy, you know and l remembered it left in henrietta's cabin the house was so still that l crabbed downstairs and went outside the front door of the cabin was locked so l went round to slip in by the back door lt was all dark inside the cabin l listened---l couldn't hear anything l crabbed to the stairs l peeped up over the lamp above the cabin there were 2 people in the room together so l had the notion of what was like between daddy and henrietta l loved them both--- there was nothing l'd have done for one of them ln a few days henrietta came up to live in the house there was my mom who was so violent 0ne day when daddy was away, mom came down to find me in henrietta's room there was a terrible thing she said awful things to me and--- all the time henrietta just stood there with her arms around me so, that's why l hated mama l wanted to hurt her l've been reading a book about a person who wanted to hurt another person he wrote him a letter--- but he didn't sign it so l wrote a letter and left it in mama's picture album which she was always looking through lt was---it was just a little note lt said ‘daddy loves henrietta..- yours truly well-meaning friend' a well-meaning friend---l signed it was that silly? that night l was in bed with henrietta lt must be very late when l found l got to sleep suddenly l heard something like fire-crackers so soft and mouthful through next room --- henrietta's room l guessed l must go in bed to sleep because the next thing l knew l--- l woke up coughing the room was terribly hot and there was a cracking sound and my dolls were on fire l tried to beat the fire out of my dolls l began to scream george---one of our neggars came through the window and wrapped me up over the blanket lt's somehow---it's somehow l could hardly yap they said ‘you still have dolls' they sent to stay with my aunt lt was until quite a while after this she told me about daddy, henrietta and mom finally she brought me to georgia and here--- did you tell her about the fire-crackers? l told her, but she said to me not to tell anything about it to anyone but l didn't tell her about the note l left in mama's picture album because l thought because l thought l--- maybe l caused her to do this some way--- then l cried and cried, but no one knew what l was crying about they thought it was about the fire--- but it wasn't just that what was it? she killed them ---she killed them and l hated her l still hate her and l hate myself for what l did you didn't do anything, my dear--- you didn't do anything 0h, l don't know---l don't know--- bulletln deflnlte rep0rts 0n blg battle at gettysburg lee attacklng heavlly vast l0ss 0n b0th sldes actl0n c0ntlnulng johnny mom, hello you see this? rivals invade pennsylvania johnny, l want to talk to you about this lt looks like there's going to be a big fight lf lee won this one, we're through how's susana? l think she's alright johnny, if you ever need me or l can help about it--- mom, you know you'll be the first person l'll come to well johnny what? nobody is here what do you mean ‘nobody is here' ? she is not here susana jimmy ‘darling, l've a safe conduct to cross the lines so by the time you read this, little jim and l will be on our way to georgia don't be alarmed about me--- they can't follow me l'm outwitting them this time they'll stop at nothing---simply nothing unless l can get away from them --- my life is not worth anything you understand, don't you, johnny? you understand your loving susana' lf you find her, what good will do? lt's all hopeless and useless you can find jim after the war but right now what you're doing is crazy that's fool's madness what it was l always have the high hope--- well, what l mean is you're such a long-headed boy always so full of laughter now, she's drained and left out of you--- who do you have to do it? she's alright, l tell you l know why you're doing it---you pity her pap, l love her--- you take care of yourself, johnny don't worry, mom l don't think the war will last any longer he'll be back anytime l think of hope, kid dear lord, please bring this boy back safe and---amen l've been with you for lifetime l believe this is the shortest prayer you've ever had board--- goodbye goodbye goodbye johnny my dear johnny johnny, that's all l can say--- it's johnny lt's fine after all these years in this town we stopped and talked and--- l never had any trouble talking just like it now lt's true johnny, just come back safe l'll try try hard lf anything happened to you, it'd be the most beautiful murder since the beginning of time nothing is gonna happen to me lt just can't, johnny, because somehow l know we'll find each other again l don't know how, but l know that l always know that and that's why l came back here l never stop loving you when l walked these streets, l said this is his town and these people are his people and this earth is his---his earth you just don't know, johnny army---halt unarm dismiss well---while l'll be cousin l'll be squaw ladies and gentlemen--- just start to dance to walk my jack's brand new pant l've been squashing and rolling loud hey l've been looking for you, jack--- l see your name on the roll of new crew hey, boys store your kits over there there's still space that's port for you troopers, l want you to meet my old and alcoholic drunken body, jack seanacy hey, seanacy--- the man from raintree county alright---now let's go l just got here come on now sorry, l got to report in this soon 0h, let them find you--- they're pretty good and besides, we got things to do and somebody to meet come on who? 0h, never mind---let's go hold out, dear boy well--- professor well, that was a long train how did they set me on, johnny? what are you doing here? well, one battlefield is as dirty as another where else should l be over the brave half-yearly throwbacks of raintree county---my kind of people been chased by any towns lately? 0h---l never stayed long enough, dear boy l'm a dear man walker on correspondence with infinite capacity for being afraid tell me, what's the state scene in lndiana these days? l don't have to go around, l trust 0h, it's lack and off considerably since you left lt hasn't changed a lot, has it? time passes--- deep scar of thunder has trenched me and cared as on this bearded cheek but bearded marks you know too many a plant myth city of new york 0h, you're a freckle professor not at all l loved that girl in raintree county he hasn't said this for 2 whole days by the way, what was her name? her husband has somehow blacked my--- otherwise in memory lydia gray---her husband only died a couple of months ago so the great mother finally got her in a lukewarm bosom apocalypse, l presume measles, l guess so the wit of guess is available in case you want to know dear boy, for such romantic dreamer--- l envy you this simplicity of your concern you see there? what? those fires over there hm --- that one hill behind it---the one behind are lousy with the rats they'll be fighting for sure in the morning they look close already ah, the white destroyer--- gun of the arms---a toss to all the men who go out and die because they have luck to be born one side or another of the south or the north---and here to sleep let's have a goodnight with it until tomorrow crusaders, you're starting a journey to a new and unknown land--- a place called hell toward--- september 19, 1863 chucamargua reach of majority language means ‘river of death' may 16, 1864 0saka, georgia another day of dramatic call is making sniper--- canasona mountain june 27, 1864 the army twisted the railroads to something called ‘southerners neckties' atlanta november 16, 1864 the first mortar cracked at the south of summer this year our army will cut us off all major operations as it gonna strike straight into the heart of the enemy and you brothers gonna stick to job and your job is next stomach of this war you gonna travel the army in front of the ranks and you gonna point the way to provision of the ranks you gonna believe the fact and lead the land you gonna be on your own free and forget command good what's so good about it, north man? l always say the general sends us to our own deaths alright ha--- alright, hold your mouth tell me, 0rvil--- are you animal, vegetable or mineral? what's mineral? 0h, there's no time to spare--- johnny , leaving all day so you join this play for august, huh? lucas sis the best fighter in all the world the time you're confused in ferocity with ability but never mind, lucas, if you should get squashed allowing you with the small and that's it to johnny seanacy, it's upset even sleeping, l hear him pray for his loving boy professor, go home as a matter of fact, l'm going l'm going to marry mrs. lydia gray now the chief obstacle in our way has been removed thinking one day, boy, there're many a devil as guards of the night the home glooms make us always better l like it l've been a road runner long enough--- so much for me but you, l can't follow--- you're with the battles we'll be marching to new georgia--- we're free of command free of command? so this is your way finding susana yourself hm ---yes well, toss to the union and the real you'll see the country swamp where is lying seeing volume so it's not easy to find us there're only ourselves where we are--- folks of the north all lost in lndiana loss an army of 60,000 men--- please return to the owners--- sign and label them flash look, a raintree county out in office l entrust myself to the hands of a gentleman where's your heart? take him over to the house when l get caught, that's what comes my leisure now move---move some ware is this? l fought in 6 major engagements--- from gettysburg to wilderness--- never been unhorsed and then l get caught by 2 bummers that's why l came to my leisure you're right, captain--- l'm ahead to turn you over to the army where's susana? do you know where susana is? susana seanacy l'm johnny seanacy---l'm her husband do you know where she is? do you know where the boy is? l'm gonna find them l'm gonna find them she---she's gone long time ago don't---go her way come on down jimmy? daddy jimmy daddy that's my hero jimmy, l don't believe it--- l don't believe it at all captain---when does this war go to end? l guess l can't go on much longer we'll see---captain lee will buy a long shot suppose all southerners will take that career, huh? am l right when somebody will continue to fight for his career? jack, l'll tell you the truth lt's too sad to know l'd blow his head off l never thought if they'd know it now captain, l didn't mr. seanacy, where you take jim? back to my house there--- l'm trying to get him to dubana you'd better go by a close cut with me--- l'll probably prove myself for probably much better talk to this asshole donkey and the war is over, you gonna get miss susana? yes don't do this, mr. seanacy l never should have told you where she was you don't know what she was like when they took her away you don't know, mr. seanacy--- she really got sickness nothing--- not all the loving care in this world could get rid of it l know miss susana--- me and old george upstairs he saved her in the fire--- he carried her through the window the smoke in his lungs, he has been holding it ever since and then she got sick she talked most strange about henrietta who could be her mother she said ovezr and over--- where she was? you crazy too? l delivered susana and from that time on mrs. strait could never take care of her so henrietta had a deal--- they were always together susana wanted henrietta to be her mother 0nly she hated the idea of democracy henrietta was---just like me 0nly then l knew what the child was--- then the war going on inside her alright, let's move thank you, patsy jack l believe he breathes bad let's make it quick flash, are you alright? flash stay where you are you hit? you need me? l'd make it settled, the pitch one stay where you are we got to get out of here you want me to take the kid? no, l'll take care of him don't wait by my side--- you got to race the run lt's the only chance for the day--- prefer 2 of us alright, let's go hey you---come out what's wrong you, bums? just want to see you still there here you're there? why don't you go and play somewhere else? you keep us out of beauty---sleep--- we gonna get you a good luck sheep shame it---you shoot that pretty close that isn't friendly---you decide to call comer save yourself not just fast---the longer l gonna save free pal, where are you coming? well, come on 0h, come on---what are you waiting for? l came from raintree county--- l can look at it---here another glorious victory hey, joey---he's coming your way he dead? no, lucky dog---war is over by him peace lee surrenders t0 grant halt mrs. roman? yeah l'm glad---l'm johnny seanacy have l told you in my letter--- mr. seanacy, that she hasn't changed mrs. seanacy is mentally deranged--- suicidal for the most part, she's normal rather than rigid women are not very pretty, are they? they're hungry mostly we don't need to be on diet we don't even have sanitary even with the war over, we're still lack of everything war or peace, nobody cares your wife is normal enough now she's locked here because l thought she might like privacy susana---l'm glad to see you you shouldn't come mrs. roman said you--- normal? l come to love this sound in that wood--- that beautiful holy sound of it l'm afraid---even in my own happiness with you here l'm taking you home with me why? l've always got in your way no, you haven't now you might even find your raintree susana, there's no raintree but l think there's--- and l say it over and over again and l make both of us miserable and then you begin to pity me and l can't accept your pity l'd rather be alone l don't pity you---l love you that's the foundation to build on you don't think the foundation too wicked after all this time? we're in an incomplete kind of love--- johnny lt just wouldn't work l like to try---l'd like to try lndlanap0lls & lafayette r.r. speclal tlme schedule remalns 0f abraham llnc0ln late presldent 0f the u.s. amd esc0ut now lincoln belongs to us all--- to all the men who died say goodbye, jim --- jim says goodbye goodnight, jim we'd better say goodnight johnny yes? l want to talk to you what about? you not tonight, professor--- l got million compositions to correct l thought the world of yours is a larger issue compositions to correct--- that's a sublime vocation l'm afraid so, professor you're quite right, johnny--- it's not a laughing matter lincoln got a bullet in the brain--- our country is still rip apart l for one take the most hopeful view about what? lincoln's reconstruction policy 0h, it never got started--- it was too gentle for most people johnny galwood l was just in the neighborhood and down to railroad station paying my last tribute to lincoln 0h, that's wit of you good evening---ladies l---l just tell you a few minutes l'll be very brief, johnny l intend to run for congress l intend to see the barrier south gets just it deserves there's no longer a barrier, galwood lt's beaten---and it's bleeding now you're sentimental, johnny personally l'm a practical politician what do you want from the sentimentalist? my election gets lead the big things--- for me, perhaps, the presidency and for me? you name it, johnny let bygones be bygones--- forgive and forget we each have a war to fight--- you in your way--- me in mine lincoln in his---but now--- now lincoln becomes a useful symbol and you'd better cash in on it l don't cash in on any man johnny, l'm organizing a new party galwood, you always belong to the same party--- the party of yourself get out well, how do you like that snob now? johnny, you'll run against him statesman, that's a splendid notion you could do it, johnny l always said he'd be a great man in the family 0h, johnny, what do you say? not me why not you? you wanna be burying yourself in the books all your life? l'm no politician some of the time you call yourself natural attitude for it--- you run your actor choice--- he spends his days teaching his half-form-mind children so he spends his nights writing a book--- a great book to guide the lost in the wilderness the book somehow never got written well, what happened to it? l don't know---the children got talk that makes me wildly happy well, you really wouldn't understand--- you're such an awful teacher l'm not my student adorable you might make a good politician me? me? why not? right now, politics is on your brow like a high fever hm --- and the fever is mourning yes---if l could now leap out--- lie out promise to galwood best days ever seen in the back of the train getting out steam when l'm squatting back in my arms with a boy lighting fire-crackers under me yes, l'm sorry l was so--- so big mouth---big mouth, huh? yes goodnight goodnight, professor my dear---perhaps even presidency goodnight, johnny goodnight good evening, nell goodnight, mom johnny, l think you're a great book of your own life don't spoil it what you did just now was very clever--- but it doesn't solve anything what are you talking about? about the professor---your candidate--- but he's not mine who would you choose? you please johnny, who else could do with? who else could help you beat the bleeding south? 0ne thing about the professor--- he'll keep his word then he'll out lip and out lie promise galwood what good he'll do with it? nell, l don't want to talk about it why? because l want you to do something you're capable of doing? look---l'm out l'm not going to run for congress johnny, if you'd only just--- look---it's final johnny, you can't escape responsibility nell--- johnny, whatever you do, l know you'll do it honorably well goodnight goodnight l'm sorry, susana---l talk too much goodnight nell nell, you still love him, don't you? we grew up together we love raintree county we went everywhere together yes, l still love him lt's because of me--- because of me you can't run for congress dear, it's not because of you because l'm sick you're not sick---it's just the--- well, l'd like to stay here in raintree county 0h, l wonder---l wonder things would be different better if you found your raintree l bet nell could find it for you susana, that was long time ago l went looking for the raintree l'm not even sure l expected to find but at least l learned to see the raintree lt's not nearly important as what you find looking for it l'm happy with what l ‘ve found..-you all my life, l want someone to love and love me--- someone whose voice is touching my ear in the night--- shut out the bad dreams--- someone who'll always be bound to me--- and that's him ---with such great barrier johnny, don't--- don't work too late, darling mommy, what are you doing? darling jim, l gonna do something for daddy--- it's a surprise what's it? we mustn't tell him or it won't be a surprise l won't tell you see l'm going to find the raintree for daddy? yes, darling---for daddy--- then everything will be alright l'll find the raintree and hand it to him gently--- with all my love can l go with you? no, darling---l take jimmy l don't understand jim, darling---someday when you're older--- ask daddy about it he'll be able to explain--- it's daddy what's for the thing---only happened to your father because he can't stay one day to have his picture now l was there mr. seanacy--- susana susana susana---hear me? johnny---you'd better come with me jim he hasn't been found yet johnny--- jimmy jimmy jim daddy daddy jimmy hello hello come on