my name is gladys aylward. i've written to the head of the missionary society. his reply stated that he'd see me if i ever came to london. -if he's busy, i can wait. -just one moment, please. sit down, won't you? dr. robinson will see you now, miss aylward. -how nice of you to drop in so soon. -thank you. i decided to come after i'd received your letter. i couldn't wait any longer. you've severed your connections in liverpool? there wasn't much to sever. i brought everything i own with me. i see. well, sit down, please. well, you are going to use me. aren't you? you are going to send me to china. it's quite impossible. why? look, i'm terribly sorry about this. i blame myself for not having been more clear in my letter, but... but why can't you use me? to be a missionary in china today is frightfully difficult. i'm not speaking from hearsay. i spend three years there for every year i spend here at home. you don't know what you'd be facing. the... the filth, the squalor, the hardships in the remote areas. that doesn't frighten me. i'm strong. i'm used to hard work. my dear girl, don't you understand? you're just not qualified. we send to china only those of our people who have very special education and experience. i know. i've had a very ordinary schooling. and since then i've been a servant, but... but i've read. i've studied by myself. i've worked at the liverpool mission on my days off. i understood that from your letters. and i do understand the strong call you feel for china, but... but it isn't enough? thank you anyway. have you any plans? n... no. well, forgive me but are you all right for money? oh, i'll get a job. that may be difficult. there's so much unemployment now. i'll manage. no, wait, please. i may be able to help you. people sometimes contact us when they have positions. old china hands, clergymen, and so on. i suppose they feel confidence in anyone we recommend. yes, here's one. sir francis jameson, the explorer and a good friend to china missions. i'd be very happy to approach him for you. that is, if you've had experience as a second maid. yes. yes, i have. for that, i'm qualified. good morning. what is the fare to china, please? china? but where in china, miss? well, wherever i can get to the quickest. exactly £90 by boat. is that the cheapest way? no, that's not the cheapest way. the cheapest way is overland, the trans-siberian railroad. that is only £41. it's a lot, but it's better. unfortunately, it's quite impossible. look, uh, will you come over here? i'll explain. look. this is the route. you go from england to holland across germany, poland, russia, siberia, china. at best, it's a very long, dangerous, and difficult trip. but over and above that, at the moment there's a situation on the russian-chinese border to which both parties have sent troops. there's been considerable disturbance. oh, that doesn't matter. but, miss, there's been shooting. this may turn into a war. why would anyone bother me? miss, milfields undertakes to deliver its clients to their destinations, usually in good health, but always alive. we cannot guarantee your deliverance to china alive, not by the overland route. i'm on my way to chelsea, a mile away. who can guarantee i'll get there alive? will you book me a passage, please? very well then. for what date? i don't know yet. i haven't got £41. but i'll pay something on account and come back every week and add to it. i'm very reliable. i don't doubt it. but we don't sell tickets that way. look. couldn't you save it up and then bring it in? i might get discouraged. if i know i own a small part of a ticket it'll be easier. i'll take the pennies and leave you the rest. there is £1 and 5 shillings. is that all you have? isn't it enough for the first payment? you can't leave yourself with just four pennies. i'm on my way to a new job. but supposing you don't like the new job or it just doesn't work? i'll make it work. will you spell your name for me please? last name first. well, the mission don't send flighty ones, and that's a blessing. come in. you're gladys aylward? i'm miss thompson, the housekeeper. i expected you an hour ago. -oh, i... -no excuses, please. are you an experienced second maid? yes, miss thompson. i've worked for... we'll soon see. the wages are 19 shillings a week. thursday and every second sunday off from 10:00 till 10:00. -that'll be fine. thank you. -i should think so. remember, there are 50 girls for every job in london. i'll take you to your room. short of breath, are you? oh, it's just the suitcase. the room's small, but it's clean. oh, it's fine. thank you. good. now, gladys, stop it. why make work for yourself on your day off? it was streaked. with people coming in for tea you would have bitten my head off. good morning, sir francis. good morning. was he annoyed at your being there? no, i don't think so. he said what he always says, "good morning." i daresay you want your money. and i daresay it will be spent by tonight. every penny. every single penny. with that, i make the grand total £24, 9 shillings. that's more than half your ticket. at this moment, i'm entering the western end of siberia. well, not quite. tomorrow, perhaps. tomorrow i'll be halfway through it. i'm cleaning a lazy woman's kitchen this afternoon and serving at a birthday party this evening. that's at least another 10 shillings. and much too much work. you haven't had a holiday for three months. i don't need one. you'll be exhausted by the time you get there. no, i'll have lots of energy left. lots left to use. good-bye. birthday cake, bessie, with half a yellow rose. oh, glad, whatever have you done? what is it? take off your coat and put on your apron. sir francis is waiting in the library. those gentlemen came to tea. there was an argument about a book. walled cities of china. sir francis went to the shelf, and it was gone. he rang for me. "perhaps it's been borrowed," i said. "i didn't lend it," he shouted. "search the house!" there it was under your pillow, a book worth £50. i'm afraid this is the end, gladys. sir francis: come in. since you were recommended by the missionary society i assume you know the difference between right and wrong. what have you to say for yourself? i... i'm... i'm sorry that you were worried but i didn't damage the book. i've been very careful with all of them. all of them? you've done this before? yes, sir. i... i have read a whole shelf on china and i'm in the middle of another. did it ever occur to you that you might ask if you could borrow the books? i was afraid you'd say no. i had to read them. i'm going to china. i have to learn all i can about it. oh, sir francis, only half of my ticket is paid for. if i can keep this job a little longer... stop fussing, girl. sit down. now, what's all this about your going to china? is the mission sending you? no. no, no, they don't think i'd be any good. i'm going on my own. you can't just wander into china without a job, without a destination, without money. i'll have at least £5 over and above my fare. -mmm-hmm. why? why must it be china? you... you feel where you belong as if you were told. for me, it's china. give up this ridiculous adolescent idea. but i can help out there. help? how can you help? you're not a trained nurse or a welfare worker. i want to be a missionary. a missionary? you? take my advice. stay here, my girl and go on polishing the furniture. you'll do far more good. no, i won't. it doesn't matter why i feel god wants me to go to china. the important thing is that i feel it. because i do, i'll go no matter what you or anyone else can say. if i can't stay here and earn the money then i'll go somewhere else. oh, i see. you may keep your job. thank you. you're a foolish, stubborn girl unquestionably heading for trouble. however, i shall worry less if some of the more obvious idiocy is removed from your plans. i've outlived all my missionary friends in china, except one. jeannie lawson, worth any ten women i've ever known. mind you, i don't promise anything but i'll drop her a line when i have a moment. she must be getting on. it's possible she could do with a strong, young helper. ah, here it is. her last address. hmm? did you pin your passport into your underthings? if anyone wants to see it they must just wait while you go to the ladies and get it. -after all, you're a british subject. -why, there's mr. murfin. how kind of you to come. well, i'm interested, naturally. some shortbread. mrs. murfin made it. is this the aylward expedition? -sir francis. -i forgot to give you this at the house. it's been with me on quite a few treks. you'll find it useful on cold nights. thank you, sir francis. miss thompson gave me a camera and mr. murfin some shortbread. sir francis, mr. murfin from the travel agency. i'd better be putting your luggage in, gladys. it's time. what are you planning to do, trade with the natives? i thought i was going to make my own tea and save money. boil everything, i told her, foreigners being what they are. very sensible, very english. now, remember the mission at tientsin will get you in touch with mrs. lawson at yang cheng. at least you have a destination. that's something. it's more than enough. i might not be leaving today if it wasn't for you. that is a thought that gives me no peace of mind. well, off you go. are you afraid, gladys? it's not too late to back out. i would, honestly. good-bye. good-bye, dear friends. yurga! yurga! yurga! yurga! conductor. can't you tell me what is happening? yurga... what is yurga? ah, angliyskyi. angliyska. english spoken. oh, good. can you tell me what is happening? we arrive to the village yurga. you must disbark. no, i have a ticket to harbin. nyet, harbin. yurga. harbin across border of china. there is argument. i'll go as far as i can. thank you just the same. ha! angliyska. english spoken with excellence, yes? yes, very. stop shouting at me. i can't understand a word you're saying. didn't you hear the conductor say i'm english? -angliyskyi... ska. -tovarisch commissar. oh, tovarisch commissar. you cannot stay here. you woman alone. soldier men not moral. your passport, please. passport. passport! i'm on my way to china but i was supposed to stop... nyet, nyet, nyet. next station, you go out. you are by profession machinery? but china no machinery. why go there? here in u.s.s.r., machinery good. tractors, combine, conveyors. you stay here. machinery china, pfeu! i'm not that kind of machinery. i'm a missionary. i'm going to china as a missionary, with a bible. onward christian soldiers marching as to war yes. yes, that's it. that's it. -yes. good-bye. oh, wait a minute! come on. yang cheng. ohh. this place, mrs. lawson's are you mrs. lawson? yes. you're gladys aylward. good for you. i didn't think you'd make it. get down, girl. you're home. ha ha! come in and see our grubby palace. oh, don't get too discouraged. we'll fix it up. isn't it very big? that's why i bought it. it's an old inn. we're going to reopen it. you and i and yang, my cook. that gave you a toot, didn't it? you didn't come out here to be an innkeeper. you came to be a missionary and teach the word. well, didn't you? gladys, i've never been this far north in china before. very few missionaries have. there are a few in tsechow, tientsin, the big cities. but there's never been one in yang cheng before nor any white person, chances are. thank you. good-bye. good-bye and thank you. now, people here call men in the next village foreigners and suspect them so why should they listen to us? then how do you hope to reach them? we're after something bigger. the mule trains pass through here. they stay the night at the inns, then go on their way. these muleteers are the newspapers of north china. if we can make one of them listen to us and believe we've reached more people than there are in yang cheng. come on in. it's even worse inside. why would they stay at our inn? because we're going to charge them what the others do for food and lodging and offer something the others don't. first, no bugs. second, stories, which the chinese love free with their dinner. i've got a good one for them to listen to and repeat. once upon a time, in a little town called bethlehem a baby was born. oh, it's a wonderful idea. well, the mission center at shencheng put up the money but they weren't that enthusiastic. come along in here. now there's yang, my cook. yang, this is miss gladys who's going to be our new helper. yang's been with me 20 years and in case you should think our work's easy he still isn't a christian. he stays with me because he thinks foreigners are funny. now come and see the rest. oh, why is it built this way? oh, it's a k'ang. it's heated from underneath like an oven. a k'ang? what is a k'ang for? a community bed. you'll find them in every inn in north china. we've got lots of rooms, but when winter comes this is the bed everybody'll be in. you mean together? 30, 40, 50 at a time all fully clothed and ignoring each other. it gets cold here. you'll find out. miss lawson, i go shop now. why not go with him? see what you've let yourself in for. she go like that? i'll get her some proper things. i wait for you outside. courtyard. the merchants will start raising their prices if they see you in those clothes. they'll take you for a rich foreigner. rich? ha ha! in these? for people as poor as they are, yes. my dear girl, you're in china now. yes. yes, i know. oh, my. you look like a chinese woman. we go now. miss jeannie like you. you stay when she die? oh, yang. she's very old. cannot live long. it isn't nice talking about people dying. you funny. just like her. good. you stay in china. i stay with you. yang, i've tried to learn chinese from a book. book don't know. i teach. we point things, then i tell you. oh. hsien chang. foreigner call him mandarin. he like judge. very important. he say die. you die. this is house where he lives. chinese call hsien-cheng-fu. hsien-cheng-fu. are all those girls his daughters? not exactly daughters. more like wives. but not exactly wives. i go shop here. are you going to stay long? oh, yes. plenty. first, gossip. then he tell me how much what i want cost. i say no. i go. he call me back. more argue plenty long time. i'll walk around a little by myself. i'll find the way back. yes, but don't forget. you foreign devil here. ooh. ohh. but i'm sorry. i... i didn't mean any harm. aah! the man was a murderer. he was tried before the mandarin proved guilty, and executed. that's their law. but to chop off his head... i don't suppose hanging's a pretty sight but that's what we do in england. that's our law. but it's different. this is so horrible, so bloodthirsty. and the way people act... those women were frightened. but what about the men in that dragon place yelling and screaming at me for no reason? they had a reason. that dragon place, as you call it was for men only. there's much that is horrible in china as in any country. babies left to die in ditches, the poor preying on the poor. many things, but they'll change. one thing at a time, with the help of the lord and that's what we're here for in this dirty room, to try to help. it's a hard life for a young woman but it won't seem hard, i promise you. when you're my age and look back it'll only seem beautiful. "the inn of the sixth happiness." ah, it sounds quite oriental, doesn't it? yes. yes, but yang... yang says that everybody in china wishes you the five happinesses. wealth, longevity, good health, uh, virtue, and a... and a peaceful death in old age. yes, but he didn't mention any more. what is the sixth happiness? that you must find out for yourself. each person decides in his own heart what the sixth happiness is. come on. oh, so much still to be done. the windows, the balcony, the roof... do you think we should've waited longer to open? can't afford to. i've used up all the year's allowance from the center doing what fixing we have done. can't do any more until we make some money but don't worry. we will. mule trains are passing through every day. i only hope some stop here. that's your job. you've got to stand outside like a regular chinese innkeeper and shout to them to come in. with my 20 words of chinese. ask yang what to shout. all right. oh, mrs. lawson, what are you doing? binding it up so the mules won't... but these bales are heavy. let me do it. oh, don't bury me before i'm ready. i have to holler to the mule drivers. what shall i say to them? oh, i tell you. we have no bugs. we have no fleas. we do have stories. good. come. now start. that's the second one that passed by. what shall i do now? well, get the lead mule in. the rest will follow. once they start on the fodder nothing will get them out. but i can't drag them in, can i? whoa! i've got mules, plenty of mules, but no men. yang! yang, what does yong gwee tso mean? man: yong gwee tze. that means foreign devil. i'm delighted that you have no fleas. oh, you speak english. that's wonderful. wonderful? to an englishman, perhaps. where is the hsien-cheng-fu, please? oh, it's down the road, but could you tell me why the men ran away? they've probably never seen a white person before especially one bent on capturing their mules. could you tell them there's nothing to be afraid of? -only if it's true. -of course it is. mrs. lawson who owns the inn is a missionary. the most frightening kind of foreign devil. i welcome you to yang cheng, captain lin nan. as a government representative, you honor us with a visit. in the future, you will be honored by other representatives, hsien chang. china is going to be one country, not a group of weak provinces left to their own devices. you're an intelligence officer, captain, according to your credentials. may one ask have you come to impart intelligence or to obtain it? both. primarily, i'm here to observe. the government wishes to know more about this isolated region, its terrain, its population, its problems. the terrain is mountainous. the population is peasant. and the problem, as always, is to stay alive. continue. i'm instructed to tell you that in some remote areas of china the laws concerning taxes, the registration of birth and death and the prohibition against the foot-binding of women are not being properly enforced. but foot-binding is a very old custom. some of the people will never obey this law. you must appoint a foot inspector who will see they do. this is part of a program aimed at the equality of women. the equality of women? that is amusing. the government is interested in the opinion of the local officials, their functions, their efficiency, how they run their prisons, their modes of execution and their corruption or... or lack of corruption. the elimination of concubines, the management of government funds, even their manner of dress. now, shall i make a formal protest about the foot-binding law in your name? i think not, captain. it is better to bend with the wind when it blows. we will have tea. mine will not be a long visit. however long, it will be too short. i fear you will find us very backward. our district is isolated from this world. not so isolated that the missionaries haven't found you. my mule train was waylaid at an inn they run. so you don't object to foreigners in your city. what is a foreigner, captain? how would you describe yourself? my heart and my mind are chinese. only my blood is mixed. if i have offended a guest in my house i shall not forgive myself. it's my own mixed blood which offends me since i believe china should be for the chinese. i cannot speak for all china, just for this one district. poor and weak as it is, i'm confident it can survive many things. new laws, no concubines, even two eccentric englishwomen. oh, mrs. lawson. oh, really. all right. i lifted a pot. and a bale of hay this afternoon. and tomorrow i may move all the furniture or start on the balconies and you're my helper, not my nurse. but i can't help with the real work. i can't go in there and tell stories in chinese. but i can free you for what is important. and if you won't let me, i don't know why i'm here. you're here because i need you. oh, and i'm a dreadful old woman. it isn't every day of the week i'd admit it. they eat like starved. must like food. now all they've got to do is like the stories. pray. that's an order. tsai bethlehem jesus... are they listening? i can't tell. mandarin servant from hsien-cheng-fu. what do you think he wants? maybe he make us close down. maybe this last supper like bible say. not to worry. he want chief mule driver get baggage for important person. guest at hsien-cheng-fu. he say let important person wait. he want to hear end of story. he does? oh, yang, then they all have been listening. shh! aah! oh! mrs. lawson! get a doctor, quickly! they will stone anyone who goes into the mountain villages and orders the women's feet unbound. no one wants the position of foot inspector. i have approached every likely candidate. it's my impression that in other matters you command rather than approach. -in your own interest, i would like you... hsien chang, are you well? yes, i am well. who are you? i am the servant of the foreign women. the old one has fallen from a great height. hsien chang, please, your doctor... my doctor? would you like me to go with him because of the language problem? ahh, perhaps it would be better. two women in a strange land. get the doctor. yea, though i walk through the valley of the shadow of death. i shall fear no evil, for thou art with me. thy rod and thy staff, they comfort me. thou preparest a table before me. good. in one week you learn much. oh, it's not enough. it'll be ages before i can really tell the bible stories. not to worry. until you can, i tell. oh, yeah, and you don't believe them. don't have to. good stories anyway. you want to worry? worry about food. two days more, no more. i knew you wanted it the moment it came. thank you. please don't go. they don't believe in the inn. they only agreed to it reluctantly "out of respect for mrs. lawson's vast experience in china. "without her or a person equally qua... qualified, "the project is hopeless. "our advice is to abandon it "and come to shencheng. "in gratitude for your help to our dear colleague, "we will arrange for your return fare to england." with that money, i could open the inn. why don't they give it to me? they gave their reasons. yes. one reason. always the same one. i'm not qualified. i was a servant in england. that's what they mean, but i came here when they said i couldn't and i'll stay here though they say i can't. i'm going back to shencheng in the morning. i'll be glad to see that you get there safely. i'm not going to leave. you are angry and disappointed. that's understandable. but you must be realistic. you cannot stay. i'll go to the food merchants. i'll beg them. they will not give you credit. you will not be able to open the inn. you have no friends, no money. you don't know the language. we're in the most isolated part of the country entering a period of violent conflicts from within and without. it isn't your country. it isn't your problem. you're white. you shouldn't be in china at all. how can you say that when you're part white? i'm half white. in your world, i can only be a second-class citizen. i chose china because here i'm allowed to be of value. that's why i came here. to be of value. how? by trying to make people believe what you believe? by saving souls who don't want to be saved? who will agree to anything for an extra bowl of rice and laugh at you once it is eaten? to argue about such things is to argue about shadows. the dangers that confront you, those are real. leave now while you still can. go back to england where you belong. if i feel that god wants me in china, then this is where i belong. in that case, i'll leave you in his hands. obviously, you don't need my help. captain lin, i... i know you think i'm stubborn, but i'm not ungrateful. for you to be concerned, to bother, it is very kind. if i were really kind, i'd have you ordered out of yang cheng, but since i'm not obsessed with saving souls or lives, i wish you well. a pleasant journey, a swift return. you honor me, hsien chang. i am told that you are not able to persuade the foreign woman to leave. she's a very foolish young woman. clearly, if she closed her ears to your advice. when she goes, it would be an act of charity to help her, hsien chang. if that is your wish. it seems possible, however, that she will not go. she'll go. they all go, the outsiders, the do-gooders in time. how i envy the young men of china. how i regret i was born too soon to be so sure of everything. and how i regret i cannot report to my superiors that the law against foot-binding is being fully enforced in the district of yang cheng. it is being enforced. in the city itself, perhaps, but not in the outlying villages, hsien chang. nor can it be. that is my first foot inspector. numbers two and three are not yet able to leave their beds. my superiors will probably understand your difficulties, but since they will certainly reduce your income till their orders are obeyed, i would appoint number four if i were you, and if necessary, five and six and so on. whom shall i appoint? those men who are not frightened of the job are disgusted by it. they say it's not men's work to inspect the feet of women. then appoint a woman. it's an interesting problem, hsien chang. i shall be happy to hear you have solved it. then be happy, captain. i've just solved it. i'm delighted. how kind of you to rejoice for me. mandarin say, captain lin ask him to help you so he offer you job on his staff. foot inspector. -foot inspector? foot inspector will tour district. see people no more bind feet of female children to make small. if female under 30, unbind. well, i certainly approve of that, yet i suppose you can go with me until i can speak more chinese. but will the people listen to us? he send soldiers, make listen. ask him how much i'll get for it. what did he say? well, he said maybe you worth something, maybe not. when you come back from first village and report mandarin tell you. -decide fast, he said. he does not need you. he make this offer to be kind. it is kind of him and the captain. yes, it is, yang. and if it pays enough to start the inn i have to take it. tell him yes and thank him. tell them it is not a bad law. it is a good law. tell the women i am speaking to them. this law is for them and their children. it is wrong for them to hobble on crippled feet. if the mandarin knew that the people felt this way about the law, why didn't he warn me? he need foot inspector. if anything happens to you, what does he lose? is there not one mother... is there not one mother in peh-chu that loves her little girl enough to let me unbind her feet? old person say unbind her feet. no! no! the pain would kill her. she couldn't walk. her feet have been bound too long. tell her the law is for the children and young women. she says, unbind her feet. let the young women see that she cares more for their children than they do. do it or she will do it herself. no, i can't. i can't do it. oh. she say, unbind her child's feet. there. that is good. don't be frightened. it won't take long. if god wanted girls to have stubby, horrid feet, he would've made them that way. what use? the father will order them bound again. look at her feet! look at them. take these. if you want her feet bound again, you bind them. you listen to her scream. not a woman, you. yang, what is happening? what is it? i don't know. maybe the women have their feet unbound. mandarin is pleased with his new servant. she has done well. as reward, he make you official foot inspector. you will also carry messages for him to the far villages and stop foot-binding everywhere. besides all this honor, he give you a horse for your journeys and one yuan a month pay. i'm not staying in yang cheng to be his foot inspector. i've got to run the inn. i want credit arranged with the food merchants. and when i take his messages to the people, i am also going to tell them of my own beliefs. it's only with honesty that i can take this job, though it was not with honesty or kindness -that he offered it to me. mandarin agree to what you ask and forgive you for the way you speak to him this time. in a world full of frightened people, he likes courage wherever he find it, even in a rude and angry woman. i am the mandarin's servant. these were the years of endless work and contentment. soon every muleteer who traveled the old trade routes knew of the inn of the sixth happiness, but my happinesses were too many to count. the happiness of being one of them, of being called by my new name. jen-ai: the one who loves people. eu eu. of learning to speak their language, of being able to talk to the people in the marketplace, to my neighbors in the fields and my friends in every village in the mountains, the happiness of watching the seasons turn and change, from autumn to winter, from winter to spring, the happiness of beginning new things that every year brought a harvest of inner happiness from teaching the children god had let me borrow. now... now we learn a song that i knew when i was a little girl. it goes like this. this old man he played one -this old man -this old man -he played one -he played one he played knick-knack on my drum man: good morning, jen-ai. good morning, jen-ai. are you well, hsien chang? i am well enough, jen-ai. good morning, jen-ai. -good morning. how beautifully you paint, hsien chang. it requires patience, a virtue of which i have great need. have the recent emissaries from the government annoyed you? government emissaries i am used to these days. they even want me to wear some kind of uniform. but, no, jen-ai, the source of my annoyance is closer to home. it is you. you have attained importance throughout the district, and with good reason. your name is as well-known as my own. you are loved by the people even more than i am, and with that i am content. hsien chang should be feared and obeyed, not loved. but you are all these things. do not compliment me. do not manage me. do not be so... so chinese, jen-ai. i am sorry, but i meant it. you are loved by the people, i said, but my officials, they do not love you. every day there is another complaint about you. the official in charge of road building complains that you urge his coolies to demand more money. the prison warden complains that you badger him with questions about the welfare of the convicts. in short, they tell me that you are an interfering woman. i probably am, hsien chang, but you have to interfere with what is wrong if you hope to make it right. that is what i tell them. of what are you guilty, i ask, that you object to her interfering? then you don't object? certainly not. bother the officials all you wish. embarrass them, ask them questions, badger them, but leave the women of my household alone. oh. exactly. did you not tell them that no human being should be subject to the will of another? and did you not tell them that to obey any man unquestioningly was old-fashioned? and have you not been teaching them to read? where will it end? with your converting them? with hymns being sung in my hsien-cheng-fu? i have not tried to convert them. why not? why stop at that? i'm surprised that you've never attempted to convert me. i may be an interfering woman, hsien chang, but i am not a completely foolish one. i know when i have met my master. hsien chang! the chief guard of the prison has just arrived. there is trouble. chief guard, where is the prison warden? he's nowhere to be found in yang cheng. what's the trouble? the convicts are rioting. they are like madmen. do i have your approval to shoot them from the walls? it would be better to leave them there. they'll hunger in time and listen to reason. of course, they may wreck the prison. before the prison warden left, he gave orders to shoot them. the convicts are under the prison warden's charge to be cared for, not be murdered. can't this man reason with them, or is he afraid? it is unfair to goad him into danger. i would not order him in there to die, jen-ai. in this mood, the convicts would kill anyone who tried to reason with them. but it is his duty to restore order, not to slaughter people. let others go in. i will not. this riot is not of my making. i am not responsible. you're responsible for order in the prison. i've heard that you say everywhere that you have a god who protects you from harm. even in prison, we have heard it. well, i have no such god. you go in. surely, you cannot be killed. it is the safety of the soul that my faith promises, not of the body. with your permission, hsien chang, i'll go to the prison. i'll try. i have many convicts but only one foot inspector. shall i lose your services so that you may save the face of your religion? if my religion loses face, how will my service be of value? do not go in, jen-ai. admit you are afraid. yes. i am afraid. open the gate. my name is jen-ai. i want to speak to you. it is jen-ai. the one who tries to help the people. jen-ai. give me that ax. go and sit against the wall and rest. you are tired. bring the wounded... bring the wounded into the shade. choose the man to speak for you. -li. -li. form into a line right there. they have chosen me. who are you? my name is li. i have been inside these walls for eight years now. and before that? i was a teacher. how did the riots start? because of hunger. aren't you fed enough? not ever enough. the warden steals our ration and sells it. -what do you do here all day? we sit or we pace or we fight. men should have work, but to the warden, we are no longer men. tell the men it will change. i will speak to the hsien chang. i promise you it will change. it has been a long time since we have tasted tea together in my humble abode. you honor me, hsien chang. hsien chang! we were not to be disturbed. i told jen-ai you were not to be disturbed. jen-ai has returned? unharmed? yes, hsien chang, but angry, very angry. my foot inspector. you'll forgive an interruption? send jen-ai in. an exceptional name, jen-ai, the one who loves people. in yang cheng, even the foot inspector is exceptional. hsien chang, what i found in that prison is a disgrace to... yes, she is still here. and if i am, it's thanks to you. well, don't you remember? when you left, you asked hsien chang to help me. to help her leave, wasn't it? to help me leave? ah, perhaps i misunderstood. perhaps i misunderstood a moment ago. you said there were no foreigners in yang cheng. nor are there. i'm a chinese citizen. you gave up british citizenship? i once told you that i belonged here. the government must've thought so, too, or they wouldn't have accepted me. so you see, captain, you were wrong. our friend is a colonel now, though equally wrong, of course. may i speak about the prison now? sit down, jen-ai. i regret to say there's been a riot. the riot is over, but not the misery that caused it. first, the convicts have been starved. the warden was stealing their food allotments. he will be found and severely punished. a new warden will be appointed at once but perhaps, as the government representative, you would prefer to rule on this case? there's no need. you are doing as the government would wish. hsien... hsien chang, just as important as the men's need for food is their need for work. when i left the prison, i went to a farmer nearby. if the convicts are allowed to work in his fields, he'll pay them with food. this would keep them active and add to their food allotment. permission is given. one more thing, during the riot, the prison was badly damaged. it should be repaired. the year's funds for prison repairs has already been used. can more be obtained? not at this time. our money must go to more important things. well, what could be more important? a war. we're expecting a japanese attack. a war? but if this should happen, why should they attack this region? we're so poor, so isolated. an innkeeper, foot inspector, prison reformer, and now, a military expert. careful, colonel. no one is more trusted by the mountain people than jen-ai. you need her to send your orders to them. there are new taxes, new quotas for the army. yes, and there's a message to them. when the invaders come, they're not to be met peacefully as in the past. they're to be fought. each man must fight. each man must kill. i cannot take that message. to me, killing is a mortal sin. you are a citizen of china. you will obey its laws. when the laws of china conflict with the laws of my faith, i know which one to obey. now, on the night the baby lord jesus was born in that stable in bethlehem, several came to bow down to him and his mother, the lady mary. there were three powerful warlords known as the magi who brought many fine gifts. and still another wonderful man, a sea captain named noah came to visit jesus. his ship was called noah's ark. the lord jesus liked this noah for he was a wise man... ahem. especially in the ways of animals whom he often took sailing in his ark. ahem. this man noah... yang. this man noah was born long before the lord jesus, but men in those days lived to be very old so no one can be sure, no one at all, that noah did not visit jesus in that stable in bethlehem. ahh! may i speak with you a moment? since you won't take the new orders around the district, i must. do you object to my traveling with you on your next tour? no. and to introduce me to the village elders? i'm leaving tomorrow morning as soon as it's light, but i have to stop at the prison first if that is convenient. perfectly. i'll meet you here. i... i remembered you as a friend. i know we think differently about things, but... but i can't understand why you were so hostile at the hsien-cheng-fu. i'm not hostile to you personally. i have few personal feelings. with the hsien chang's approval, your new prison warden gives you leave to plant the little field outside the wall for your own use. it isn't much, but it is a beginning. we thank you, jen-ai. we are grateful. surely that was a great opportunity for making converts. aren't you neglecting your missionary work? is that what you think it is? collecting converts, the way a child collects pretty stones? is it anything else? to me, it's making each man know that he counts whether he believes in christ or buddha or nothing, colonel, like you. i believe in china as it can be. i love china the way it is. filthy, ignorant, backwards? no, but if your house is dirty, you can clean it. one can make improvements even in small corners, like this prison. if enemies plan to burn your house, is it time to clean or to fight? the village elder tells me that except for those citizens under five years old, you all know every word in the first reader so here's the second one and it's much harder. and i'll tell the hsien chang that in peh-chu all the toes can wiggle and everyone can read. now, that finishes my business. colonel lin, an officer in our army will now talk to you. i bring bad news and orders that mean hardship. the government believes that our country will soon be attacked by the japanese. because this may well start here in the north, this concerns you. they will not bother us. this is a small, poor village. this is a small, poor finger. it must do its part if i'm attacked or it will become a small, dead finger. a large army is being trained to defend you. to maintain it, you must give half your grain and livestock. all men must register for the army. many will be taken, but those at home must fight, too. they will kill the enemy if they can. burn the crops that might feed him. and plant again when he's gone. read the orders. jen-ai, must we obey this man? it's not for me to tell you what you should obey or not obey but you must listen. the colonel speaks for the government. you mustn't mind. they are just terribly suspicious of foreigners. at the four villages we visited, has anyone listened to me? they've listened. they'll fight. people are always ready to fight. i appreciate your not trying to influence them differently. my conscience is my own affair and theirs is theirs and yours is yours. hoka! hoka! three days we wait for you, jen-ai. a fine greeting. and now look what you bring. let him go. why not the police, huh? come on. those bandits are obviously your friends. are there more of them? about 20. it's a small band. they're poor, ignorant men who need help. one has been hurt. i want to see what i can do. hoka says you can wait here without harm. if you give me your word you'll forget you ever saw them. i promise. on one condition. that i can go with you and talk to them. 20 bandits used to these mountains. they'll make excellent scouts for us. you never miss an opportunity, do you? you do your work. i do mine. jen-ai! i'll speak to him. hoka! he promises, but only if he can talk to you. all right! it's all right, colonel! hello, jen-ai. the government believes that our country will soon be attacked by the japanese. when it comes, you can perform an important service by scouting the enemy. if you will help, you will be pardoned for all your crimes and become honored citizens again. you will not have to hide in the mountains like thieves. think about it. you can be of valuable help in the north if it starts here. that's all i have to say. your friend makes a fine speech. he says we're all going to be heroes. if the japanese come, we'll all be honored dead, i think. thieves and citizens alike. is he going to be all right, jen-ai? i don't know enough to be sure but at least i got the wound clean. well, use your medicine to make him well. he's a good man. he's a bad man, hoka, just like you. but i will use the medicine if your men don't rob or kill for eight weeks. four weeks. -i can kill you and take the medicine. -go ahead. no killing or robbery for eight weeks or i'll let this man rot. all right. but you can be very hard, jen-ai. like a man. if dr. robinson could see me now, with my convicts, my bandits, and you. still i wonder if in england you wouldn't have had a more normal life. marriage, children, and all that. for some people, that never happens, no matter where they are. i have always felt that i was one of those. maybe hoka is right. i am like a man. it's a warm night. why don't you come for a swim with me? hoka was wrong, jen-ai. you're not like a man at all. this village we are coming to will be our last visit. we head back for yang cheng in the morning. the baby should be covered. do you want it to die? if it dies, i'll get another. it is easy to get babies. ask your man. be quiet. did you steal this child? no! no! it's a girl child, worthless. a beggar gave it to me. i hope to find a woman with pity who would take it. i'll take it from you. i'll adopt it. but i need money. how much? jen-ai. 10 yuan. jen-ai, you can't be serious. all i have is this lucky piece from england. could you lend me some money? not for this idiocy, no. sixpence. english money. -no. -take it. if you don't, the child will die, and you'll have nothing. don't you see how stupid and pointless this is? you can't adopt every abandoned baby in china. no, just the ones i'm offered. what are you going to do with her? call her sixpence. do you like it? i said what are you going you do with her? what do you know about babies? what is there to know? when they're dirty, wash them. when they're hungry, feed them. we'll find an inn and do both. i will feed the baby, jen-ai. i spoke to my husband about it. why don't you let us keep her? we have no girls. no. aren't you being a little selfish? it's right for her to be with them. i like her. i don't want to give her up. woman: where will you eat, you and your friend? jen-ai and her friend will eat outside so that they may quarrel in peace like true friends. why do you think it's more right for sixpence to stay with them? 'cause you think she'll mind one day having a white mother? 'cause you may mind one day having a chinese child. but how can you say that? because i know. my mother was chinese, my father dutch. he took us to his country after china made him rich. it was a great novelty having a beautiful chinese wife. till the embarrassment started coming and the insults. then he divorced her and sent her back. she was a gentle little woman. she never recovered from it. he kept me with him. an empty man needs sons. i didn't look very chinese as a child. then the day came i wasn't a child anymore. and i don't want sixpence ever to tell you what i told him the day i left him. but you were hurt, lin nan. oh, do you think i would ever hurt a child? no, you wouldn't. but what if you marry? oh, that won't happen. you said it before. how can you be so sure? you've never met anyone you loved? nor anyone who loved me. ohh. i'm not attractive in that way. but don't you know you're beautiful? once in her life, every woman should have that said to her. i thank you for being the one who said it to me. oh, it's late. i... i better go in. may i have the baby? yang! yang! she's coming! she's coming! i can't wait to see the hsien chang's face when he hears his foot inspector has a baby now. he'll take it calmly. they always light firecrackers when i come home. -hello, children. no scolding! they were good! we were wonderful. the noise scared her. ahh. these are my children. this is my big daughter, sui-lan, and my little girl, mai-da, and my big son and my little son, bao bao. children, this is colonel lin. mother, you forgot to say my name. it's the same as yours. lin. lin? yes, yes, we call him lin. children, this little baby's your new sister. her name is sixpence. yang, we can handle one more, can't we? can five be more trouble than four? i... i found lin soon after you left and i felt you were my first friend in china, so naturally, i named him after you. i hope you don't mind. no, i don't mind. and so you lectured her on the difficulties of raising children. ha! she thrives on difficulties. she's a very forceful woman. yes. yes, she is, but she's also gentle and trusting. she walks through a world full of evil and sees only children, not complicated or cruel, just untidy ones needing to be washed and fed and loved. i see this trip has been eventful for you. and for jen-ai? i don't know. in any case, i shall be leaving soon. and returning? no. are you troubled, colonel? confused. a sign of growth. when first we met, you were not capable of confusion. you were sure of everything. that's the way i must be. my life is planned. a life that is planned is a closed life, my friend. it can be endured, perhaps. it cannot be lived. excuse me, hsien chang. write a letter to jen-ai. write and tell her the colonel sings the praises of my foot inspector which honors me and ask her to dine with us this evening. also tell her i am sending her something which was intended as a gift for her name day. i think this is a more appropriate occasion. man: the honorable tax collector! hsien chang, are you well? i am well, tax collector. this is our guest, colonel lin. our city is honored, colonel. man: the honorable foot inspector! i thought it would give you pleasure if she joined us. look at the elders. they're stunned. they've never dined here with a lone woman before. officially, that is. are you well, hsien chang? i am well, jen-ai, and well-pleased my foot inspector is beautiful. so you see, jen-ai, more than one man has told you that. it's the hsien chang's gift that is beautiful. yes, that, too. i am also well-pleased with my own judgment. no disrespect to hsien chang's gift. it is his foot inspector who is beautiful. you're confusing me. many people are confused these days. let us have dinner and wine and music and discuss it further. we will dine! when you left me at the inn i thought you were angry. you were wrong, jen-ai. colonel. jen-ai. colonel, i'm afraid it is the old china which impresses jen-ai. no. i like all of it. i know there are beautiful things in other places, but i couldn't see until i came here. sometimes, i think my life really started in china. colonel lin? yes? i'll be just a few minutes. well, it seems to be starting. enemy troops are massing at several points along our borders. is my city in danger? not yet, certainly. though you never know where they'll strike or when or if. hsien chang, i must go now. may i ask a favor? a moment alone with jen-ai. go into the garden. i told you once that i have few personal feelings. you were trying to be unkind. perhaps i'm being even more unkind now. i've many personal feelings, for you, all of them. what i wanted to say to you, i... i tried not to say, i was afraid to say, but i cannot leave with the words unsaid. there's nothing you can't say to me. would it offend you to be loved by a man of another race? it would honor me. that makes me very happy. so let's leave it this way, jen-ai, till i come back. look, mother. children, come down from there. oh, children. here. wait here until i get back for you. there is food in the basket. sui-lan, watch out for them. be brave. jen-ai! jen-ai! what is to become of us? tell me what to do! take the children whose parents are gone to my inn! are you hurt? no. yang! yang! yang! to the square, everybody! everybody go to the square! to the square, everybody! have you seen yang? i don't know. go to the square. the hsien chang wants everyone! citizens of yang cheng, japanese soldiers are close to us less than a day's march away. we will take refuge in the mountains, on the farms in the small villages. the officials and i will stay close to yang cheng to keep watch and to send word to you when it is safe to return. go now and work for your city and your brothers. go to the west gate. it is time now. to the west gate! it is time! to the west gate, everyone. to the west gate. jen-ai! li, what are you doing here? the prison has been destroyed. many were killed. the few who survived have been set free. i have come to help. jen-ai, we found yang. where is he? he's behind the marketplace. -is he hurt? -badly. i'll come! li, you go on with the children. follow the hsien chang. i'll see you in peh-chu. you're staying here alone? i must say good-bye to an old friend. very tired. i die soon. not so bad to die. not good, but not so bad. not to worry, miss gladys, not to worry. no sign of the enemy, sir, or anyone else. the others are still searching, but the city seems abandoned. possibly, a week. all right, we go in. groups of six, five minutes apart. tell the men. -lieutenant wong? -yes, sir. you come with me. sergeant wu, sergeant ching, sergeant fong. lin nan! oh! you are alive. so many things to tell and so many things to ask. all i can think of is can sixpence walk now? yes. yes, and she said her first word last week. what was it? she said no. what is it? it's the elders celebrating their return. we were close by in the hills with the hsien chang and we saw you ride in. jen-ai, is the hsien chang in the hsien-cheng-fu? yes. i have to talk to him and to you. hsien chang! ah, you have found each other. this is a happy night for many reasons. they will be glad to see the last of us at peh-chu, thanks to this young woman. you should see the orphans she has collected there. 10, 15, i've lost count. captain, start on with the men. i'll follow. oh, i'm sorry. i thought there would be a little time. soon there will be all the time in the world. our troops are advancing. the enemy has been pushed back. no, hsien chang. they've been withdrawn to join a powerful army which has just crossed our border. we'll bring up everything we have to meet it. the war is just beginning. they will have to put up with us a little longer at peh-chu. no, hsien chang. you must leave tonight with the elders for the town of lao. but lao is in another province. exactly. if you were captured here, the enemy could use you as a puppet governor, issue orders through you, which the people would obey. you speak as if we were defeated! the battle has not yet been fought! we will be defeated. we'll hold them up as long as we can, but they'll push us back, mile by mile till they suddenly burst through and pour across the north like a river. i must tell the elders. they are at the temple offering thanks for their homecoming, but we will sit down together, one last time. you could go with him, but shencheng is better. it's army headquarters. i'll be sure of finding you there. you'll find me right here or in the hills nearby, where i belong. all missionaries and foreigners are being ordered out of this area. if it is true, that doesn't apply to me. i'm not an accredited missionary and i'm a chinese citizen, not a foreigner. but it isn't true, is it? you don't lie very well. i want you to promise me you will go. i want you out of it. don't wish me out of this or in any way seek to get me out for i will not be got out. these are my people and i will live and die with them. i want you to be safe. i'm afraid for you. oh, i'm afraid for you, too. so many men will die, but i don't love you any less for leaving. do you think i love you less for staying? jen-ai, life was good to bring us together. two people who thought that they had to live without love. and tonight again, when everything seemed against it, we found each other. but isn't it asking too much, even of god, if there is a god, to hope that we will meet again if you stay here? whatever you decide, let hoka know. i'll get in touch with him. whatever you decide, i love you. as long as i'm alive, i will love you. these robes, in farewell to the past, mine and china's. in a little while, we must leave our city perhaps for years, perhaps forever. for those of us who are old, certainly forever. elders of yang cheng, i thank you for your help in this time of trouble, but we were born to our trouble. there is one who has taken it upon herself not from necessity but from love. jen-ai, we thank you for those who are not here, for the dead, whose children you have taken as your own, for the poor and the sick and the afflicted, for all the people of yang cheng, for the past and for the future. i honor you for your strength. i wish to share with you the faith from which it comes. city recorder, close the books of yang cheng with this entry. as a sign of respect for the honored foot inspector of this city, the hsien chang of yang cheng has become a christian. oh, i... i thank you for this... for this great gift. i can't... i can't... jen-ai, accept my gift. it is offered with love. it is time to go, old friends. stay here in the hsien-cheng-fu for a little. it will comfort me as i leave to know it. we shall not see each other again, i think. farewell, jen-ai. how many more can we lose? when the japanese have gone, if any of our men are still alive, help them. this is all the food i can spare. i wish i could keep you here longer but it isn't safe. be careful and good luck. if you'd gone when the colonel told you, you wouldn't have so many children. have you any news of colonel lin? no. many soldiers are trapped in tsechow. -he might be there. -she hit me. i want to speak to you. go. go and play. there, the japanese are. here we are with only tsechow in between. there's only one thing to do... get out while you have the chance. that's what i'd planned if they came that close, but that was before i had 50 children. there's no place for them. there's no room in peh-chu. i thought of the mountain caves, but it's getting too cold. we have to stay here. that's foolishness. get out while you have the chance. i would if i knew where l could get food for the children, medical care, schooling, all that they need. at least the inn is on neutral ground. it's owned by the mission. i don't think anyone would hurt them. you think the japanese will feed them? they're human beings. they might. oh, i don't know. you've been awake all night. i don't know what to do. i've thought. i've prayed. i... it's no use. i can't find an answer. i've started the stove. i'll bring you some good hot tea. -and then... wait! wait! your friend ran after the men who brought us. they were afraid. all the way from tsechow, they were afraid. i thought tsechow was taken. it was, but our missionary got us out. we're from the mission orphanage. i see. where were the men supposed to take you? do you know? to you, if your name is jen-ai. i've a letter for you from our missionary. my name is timothy. i couldn't catch the men. there must be 50 of them. oh, li, the answer came. it's from the missionary in tsechow. he wouldn't leave his hospital, but there's a home for the children in the interior with a school and everything and they'll take ours. we have to get them to the mission at sian by november 12th. the army trucks which will take them must leave on that date. but that is three weeks away! and it'll only take one week on the honan road. oh! "these children will be met in sian "and taken the rest of the way "by the head of the mission center, dr. robinson." dr. robinson. oh, children! oh! hurry up, men! get out of your uniforms quickly. he's coming, colonel! she wasn't there. there's no one in yang cheng but a few old people. where did she go? sian, with the children and li, by way of the honan road. honan road. the japanese have a roadblock on the honan road 30 miles south of yang cheng. when did she leave? yesterday afternoon. on foot. on foot with 20 children to slow her down. with 100 children to slow her down. 100 children. jen-ai. jen-ai! lin nan. i didn't think i'd reach you in time. you're walking into an enemy roadblock. oh. oh! i have to get these children to sian. i can't go back. not a handful would survive the winter. but the roadblock... i can get them across the mountains. but it's twice as long, terribly dangerous and impossible for you alone on foot with 100 children. i can't go with you. my orders are to start the resistance here with the people and soldiers left. you'd only put us in danger, you or any soldier. this way, if we're caught, i can explain who we are... if you're given the chance to explain. if the journey doesn't kill you. no. no. i think this journey was meant for me. lin nan, i think this is why god wanted me to come to china, to get these children out. remember to avoid the traveled roads and look for the hidden ones. i've marked the distance you should cover each day to reach sian in time. when you get there, go to army headquarters. they will try to get a message through to me. then you're not going to ask me to stay in sian or to go to safety in the interior with the children? i know you too well for that now and i love you too much. i know you'll come back if you can. i'll give it to our oldest son one day. you must go while there's still light. a safe journey, a happy return. timothy, take sixpence a while. i thought the big boys were carrying the pot. they're playing a game. it is good that they're in high spirits. i'd like to keep them that way as long as we can. three more days and our food is gone. but here is the village. i know the people will help us. we should be there in about two days. should we stop and let them rest? let us go on a little longer while it is light. up. come on, children. some rice. there. now you two share that bowl. give me that. you two share it. there. now you share it with her. go over there. there's so little food in this soup. it's hot. it'll fill their stomachs until they fall asleep. and when they wake? i could have 10 more bowls full. big talk. big stomach. children, run down the road. keep going. come on, children. hurry up. we'll try and find a crossing upstream. children, come down here. be very careful. children, come down this way. careful. it's too deep. it's over my head. too dangerous. and cold. very cold. but we can't stop now. if we had a rope, we could tie one end to a tree and one of us could get across with the other end. and then we could make a big fire. jen-ai, we have some rope and blankets. children, you know what the coldest sound in the world is? well, it's teeth chattering. and that is all i can hear. do you know what we are going to do? we're going to sing a song and drown it out. take your jacket off. we're going to sing... you know this one. hold it up. there. we're going to sing, you know. this old man he played one he played knick-knack on my drum knick-knack paddywack give the dog a bone this old man came rolling home come on. this old man he played one he played knick-knack on my drum with a knick-knack paddywack give a dog a bone this old man came rolling home this old man he played two he played knick-knack on my shoe with a knick-knack paddywack give a dog a bone this old man came rolling home this old man he played three he played knick-knack on my knee it's quiet. too quiet. so are the children. children! run! come on! under the trees! come on! get up. come. children, get up. get up, children. come on, children. come. oh! they are ours! they are chinese. woman, where you taking those children? i'm trying to get them to sian. we've been walking for days. the children are starving. men, feed the children. thank you. do you think the airplane will come back? i don't know. they were reconnaissance, i think. we had to hide too. yesterday we saw some japanese soldiers in the forest you're coming to. it's very dangerous. there may be more. we have no other way to go. i wish we could help you but our orders take us north. anywhere near yang cheng? i don't know. if you should get near yang cheng and you run into a man called lin, colonel lin... would you give him a message? tell him you met a woman with 100 children only six days from the yellow river. and tell him to stay alive. just to stay alive. how good it was to see them eat. it would be good to see you eat. drink this. one of the soldiers gave me a pinch of tea. this forest... this is where we're going to lose time. no path, the children running off. i got this chalk from one of the soldiers. what do you want that for? i want to leave ahead of you and scout. but if there's danger ahead. i could mark the trees with this chalk as a guide. the children could make a game of looking for the marks. it would hurry them too. we'd better stay together. i don't want you to go alone. alone or together, we'll meet what we're meant to, danger or safety. i'll wait for you at the end of the forest. mother, you are worried, aren't you? i'm just tired. we must all sleep. mother, do you think we'll be in time for the trucks on the 12th? of course, sui-lan. we'll be in time. we must be in time. mother, when you take us to sian you're going back, aren't you? to yang cheng. oh, mother, will i ever see you again? -oh, sui-lan. -oh, mother. sui-lan. you and lin and the three little ones, you're mine. you're my family. we'll keep together. i promise you. i'll just be gone for a little while. you'll go to school, and i'll be so proud of you. and when the war is over we'll all go home. we'll all go home. yes. i'll look after the little ones. yes. until you come back to us. oh, my mother, you come back to us. you come back for us. come back for us. oh, sui-lan. i found one! i found another one. i found one. i see another. sit down, children, wherever you are. sit down. don't move until i get back. be very quiet. sui-lan, watch them. timothy. timothy, come with me. "if you keep my commandments "you shall abide in my love "even as i have kept my father's commandments "and abide in his love. "these things i have spoken unto you "that my joy might remain in you "and that your joy might be full." this is my commandment... that ye love one another as i have loved you. greater love hath no man than this that a man lay down his life for his friends. how far have we got to go? i'm hungry. i'm hungry. i'm tired. i'm tired too. children, children, no. we can't stay here. we can't stay here. i know you're tired and hungry but this is the last mountain we are going to cross. and then... then we'll see the yellow river and ride across to sian. now, you must think how happy our good friend li, who is in heaven would be for us. there. now try to be brave just a little longer. now. come on, children. come on. look! the river. oh. children, the river! oh, sixpence, look! look at the river. go. let's go. dr. robinson. have you any news? no. but today is november 12th and the trucks are at the depot. you'll have to leave. we're not leaving without those children. that last message said they were six days away. that was nearly two weeks ago. the mountains they are going through are controlled by the enemy and almost impassible... i know, but... there's practically no chance for them to get through. i know. the whole city knows. that's why we've been praying night and day for those children. why we'll continue to pray and to wait. i'm sorry, doctor, but... this old man came rolling home this old man he played one he played knick-knack on my drum with a knick-knack paddywack give a dog a bone the children! the children! they are here! this old man the children from tsechow. knick-knack on my shoe with a knick-knack paddywack give a dog a bone this old man came rolling home this old man he played three he played knick-knack on my knee with a knick-knack paddywack give a dog a bone this old man came rolling home this old man he played four he played knick-knack on my door with a knick-knack paddywack with a knick-knack paddywack give a dog a bone this old man came rolling home this old man he played five he played knick-knack on my hive with a knick-knack paddywack give a dog a bone this old man came rolling home this old man he played six he played knick-knack on my sticks with a knick-knack paddywack give a dog a bone this old man came rolling home this old man, he played seven he played knick-knack oh, my heaven with a knick-knack paddywack give a dog a bone this old man came rolling home this old man he played eight quiet. quiet. quiet. these are the children from the north. we've been waiting for you. it was a long journey. i'm sorry we are late. late? oh! dr. robinson, do you remember me? my name used to be gladys aylward. yes. i remember you. gladys aylward who wasn't qualified to come to china. will you come with us to our children's village? no one would be more valuable. thank you, but i'm going back to yang cheng. i'm going home.