[dog barking] whoa. [door bells jangle] that's a little over 10 pounds. how much is beaver worth this year? $6.00 a pound. well, i'll trade you for a new plow, two tubs of lard, a barrel of molasses, 25 pounds of chewing tobacco... and you wouldn't have a wife under the counter there? i'm looking for a wife. any special brand? well, yes. i'd like best a widow woman that ain't afraid to work. there's 7 of us men, me and my 6 brothers. the place is like a pigsty. the food tastes worse. so i made up my mind next time i'm in town trade, i'm gonna bring me back a wife. that's a fine thing i must say, thinking you can trade for a wife like she was a bag of meal. no, i wouldn't say that. let me tell you, none of our gals is gonna go off to bear country with you to cook and wash and slave for 7 slumocky backwoodsmen. there's 10 men for every woman out here. if you want a wife, go back east and get one. there's no unmarried females in this town? [door bells jangle] good morning, mrs. bixby. having a quilting bee. thought you have some odds and ends. mrs. bixby: i'll see. how about these? now, just a minute. what's the matter? they married? they're spoken for. oh, just spoken for. you had me scared. i tell you, they're promised. a lady can change her mind, can't she? pay him no mind, girls. fred, put his things in the wagon. don't keep him waiting. i'm in no hurry. i got all afternoon. you're wasting your time. you won't find a girl in this town to marry you. never set my mind to something yet i haven't got. whether it's plowing 20 acres in a day or dropping a tree where i want it. i'm here today to get me a wife. i don't mean to go home empty-handed. you're all pretty, fresh, and young. i'll keep you in mind. but i ain't deciding on nothing until i look them all over. [whistling] ♪ bless your beautiful hide, wherever you may be ♪ ♪ we ain't met yet, but i'm a-willin' to bet ♪ ♪ you're the gal for me good morning, ma'am. mamma, mamma, papa wants you. ♪ bless your beautiful hide, you're just as good as lost ♪ ♪ i don't know your name, but i'm a-stakin' my claim ♪ ♪ lest your eyes is crossed ha ha ha! ♪ oh, i'd swap my gun, and i'd swap my mule ♪ ♪ though whoever took it would be one big fool ♪ thanks, adam. ♪ or pay your way through cookin' school ♪ ♪ if you would say, "i do" good morning, ma'am. good morning, backwoodsman. nice day for marrying. that's a right good idea. oh, lem, i thought you'd never ask me. ♪ bless your beautiful hide, prepare to bend your knee ♪ ♪ and take that vow 'cause i'm a-tellin' you now ♪ ♪ you're the gal for me ♪ pretty and trim, but kind of slim ♪ ♪ heavenly eyes, but, oh, that size ♪ ♪ she's got to be right to be the bride for me ♪ ♪ bless your beautiful hide, wherever you may be ♪ [dog barking] milly, a dozen men in here are bellering for vittles and you're chopping wood! i'm coming! ♪ pretty and trim, but not too slim ♪ ♪ heavenly eyes and just the right size ♪ ♪ simple and sweet ♪ and sassy as can be ♪ bless her beautiful hide ♪ yes, she's the girl for me milly, milly, let's eat. come on. i'm dying of hunger. you'll all eat. just give me time. ah, nobody can cook like milly. when you gonna marry me? oh, next week, sam. she's gonna marry me, ain't ya, milly? what would your wife say? anything you'd like? could be, but first, i'd better sample that cooking. oh, oh, oh! oh, harry! oh, i am sorry. that's all right, milly. awfully sorry. that smells good enough to eat. tastes good, too, so they tell me. got any ketchup handy? my stew can stand on its own feet. good? good. [moo] my name's adam pontipee. odd name, i must say. i live up the mountain. got a farm there. have you? good farm and a house on it. there's timberland, high grazing meadows, sheep, milk cows, 50 acres of wheat. only thing it ain't got is a woman. how about it? how about what? i just told you. how about marrying me? [continues milking cow] oh, i know it's kind of short notice. back east, we would have met of a sunday leaving church. six months later, i would have asked you, could i walk you home? next 2, 3 years, i would have set in your front parlor every wednesday night. i would have asked your father to marry you. but here, there's not time. i've got to be home tonight to tend to my stock. it'll be another 5 months before i get down again with my grain. you going to keep me waiting 5 months just for your pride? i'd have to finish my chores. i knew it the minute i set eyes on you. you're the gal for me. i'll go get cleaned up and root out the preacher. ♪ bless her beautiful hide, wherever she may be ♪ uh, where's the preacher's house? down the street, next to the church. thanks, pop. ♪ she's the gal for me i'll say it plain, milly, and to your face. i don't like this marriage. i don't know you or anything about you, and i feel responsible. milly's like a daughter to us. we're her only family. reverend, since i came here, you've been after me to marry. "a girl had no right to stay single," you said. the country needed to be settled. we meant for you to marry one of our young men. you had your pick with them. i tried. again and again, i tried. i'd say yes to one of them, but an awful sinking feeling would strike me right here, and i couldn't do it. when i said yes to him, i waited for that feeling, but it didn't come. i feel just fine. i feel so good i could cry. i think it's wonderful... love at first sight. alice, what kind of talk is that? you're determined, milly? yes, reverend. then step forward. take her hand in yours. repeat after me... i, adam pontipee. i, adam pontipee. take this woman to be my lawfully wedded wife. take this woman to be my lawfully wedded wife. [dog barking] where's she going? never did like them pontipees. now i know why. maw, maw, he done it! he got a wife! [gasp] it's milly. it's indecent, if you ask me... one lone woman with 7 scroungy backwoodsmen. ♪ bless your beautiful hide ♪ ♪ wherever you i'm not much of a bride, with only this for an outfit. you'll find a trunk in the attic belonging to my mother. there's things, if you're handy with a needle. i'd like that. i'd like to wear something that belonged to your mother. my mother left me these... they're packets of seed for a flower garden she meant to plant. my father left me these... plutarch's lives and the bible. he taught me to read by them. hope maybe someday i can teach our... how far is it up to the farm? oh, about 12 miles. imagine... on my way to my own home. i feel so wonderful i could yell. then go ahead. hooray! [echoing] ha ha ha! that's echo pass. it ain't safe to raise your voice in the winter. it might start an avalanche. i cussed my horse too loud one february. we got snowed in till spring. most people think that would be pretty lonely, but i can stand some loneliness after the inn. yeah. i'd better water the horses. whoa! my wedding bouquet. sorrel? it makes real nourishing soup. ha ha ha ha. always back at the inn, when i'd hear all the men yellin for their dinners, i'd think how wonderful it would be to cook and care for one man. just one man. now that it's happened, i can't hardly believe it's true. ahem. ♪ ding, dong, ding-a-ling dong ♪ ♪ were the steeple bells ♪ ♪ ever quite as gay? ♪ ♪ wonderful, wonderful day ♪ ♪ bluebirds in the bluebells ♪ ♪ sing a song ♪ to send me along my way ♪ ♪ wonderful, wonderful day ♪ ♪ though i've got to own up ♪ ♪ i'm as grown-up as can be ♪ ♪ seems i've gone and flown up ♪ ♪ to a bright, merry, airy fairyland ♪ ♪ and so you'll forgive me ♪ if i simply throw out my chest and say ♪ ♪ beautiful, glorious ♪ heavenly, marvelous ♪ wonderful, wonderful day ♪ big clouds floatin' lazy ♪ like a daisy in the sky ♪ big things to be doin' by and by ♪ ♪ goin', slowin', growin' things ♪ ♪ big love for my darlin' ♪ ♪ as we share ♪ whatever may come our way ♪ ♪ beautiful, glorious ♪ ♪ heavenly, marvelous ♪ ♪ wonderful, wonderful day ♪ [dog barking] whoa! [cow lows] oh, uh, this is my brother caleb. how are you, brother caleb? this is my wife milly. your wife? well, i'll be a monkey's uncle. hey, eph, dan, he done it! he got married! this is my brothers ephraim and daniel. hiya, brother ephraim, brother daniel. which one is ephraim, and which is daniel? me. me. and this here is benjamin. how are you, brother benjamin? you didn't tell me you had brothers. it must have been the wedding threw it out of my mind. you all live around here? not round... here. oh. i guess i should have picked some more sorrel. uh, this is the house. [cluck cluck] [squawking] my, what a nice big room. well, it might need readying up a bit. now that you're here. come on. wake up and meet your sister-in-law. this is frank. how are you, brother frank? this here is gideon. you can drop that spoon. we'll have some human cooking, for a change. are there any more? no. gideon's the last born. it'll take me a while to put the right name with the right brother. just remember your abc's... adam, benjamin, caleb, daniel, ephraim, frank, and gideon. they're fine-sounding names. bible names. that was maw's idea. the abc's, that was pa's, so he could keep track of us. he was figuring on using the whole 26 letters, right down to zachariah, but when he got a look at gideon, he chopped a tree down on himself. there's one of the names in the bible i don't seem to remember... frank. is frank a bible name? that ain't his real name. we just call him that for short. his real name is... aah! pay 'em no mind. i'll show you around. up here's the bedroom. can't you stop them? you'll get used to that. like i was saying... was it something i said? no. frank's touchy about his name. there was no "f" names in the bible, so maw named him frankincense because he smelled so sweet. like i was telling ya, up there's the bedroom. down there's where the boys bunk. follow me. i'll show you the rest. uh, this is the washroom. me and the boys are kinda hard on clothes so there will be lots of washing and mending, but... now that i'm here. this is the kitchen. you'll find flour on that shelf, salt pork over there. get out of here! all of ya! how do you expect her to get supper with you underfoot? get out. you, too, gideon. come on. you'll find wood down the path there, but the water's right outside the front door. there's the dinner bell. ring it loud when you get supper ready. [clanging] ow! what'd you do that for? you... all of you falling on the food that way! haven't you any decency to wait for grace? huh? no! you don't even know what i'm talking about! look at your brothers! the vittles must be good. all right. if you're going to act like hogs, you can eat like hogs! oh! oh! ha ha ha! "neither cast ye your pearls before swine, "lest they trample them under their feet and turn again and rend you." [ticking] [clock strikes] it's about time for you boys to turn in, ain't it? got a big day of plowing ahead tomorrow. it's 9:00 already... an hour past your bedtime. yours, too. [snickers] well, uh... i guess i am getting a mite sleepy, at that. milly: who is it? it's adam, your husband. come in, adam. good night, boys. i, uh, thought you'd be in bed. did you? it's been a right busy day. you must be kind of tuckered out. that's right. shall i, uh, turn down the covers? you can if you like... but i'm not going to bed. you don't want a wife, adam. you want a cook, a washerwoman... a hired girl. well, a hired girl's got a right to her own sleeping place. i reckon that's so. in the wagon, you let me talk... make a fool of myself talking about you and me. you should have stopped me! maybe i should have, but it sounded real pretty. besides, if i'd have told you beforehand, you might not have married me. i wanted you to marry me real bad. sure you did, because you knew i was young and strong and there was lots of work in me. that's partly true. it's a hard life out here in the wilderness. there's trees to be felled, land to be plowed and fenced, and stock to be fed. a man wants a wife who can work alongside of him. of course, if... if she's got eyes that are bluer than cornflowers and hair the color of wheat in the sunshine, he counts himself real fortunate. i'll work alongside you, adam... but i'm not sleeping alongside you. she wants a drink of water. she's thirsty. [gasp] have a drink. what are you doing? bedding down for the night. don't know what the birds see in it. somehow it just don't seem fitting for a bridegroom to spend his wedding night in a tree. it was your idea, not mine. i guess i was pretty mad, adam, but... i built up such a store of dreams, dreams about love and... and marriage and such. ♪ when you're in love ♪ when you're in love ♪ there is no way on earth ♪ ♪ to hide it ♪ when you're in love ♪ really in love ♪ you simply let your heart decide it ♪ ♪ with every sigh ♪ with every glance ♪ with every heartbeat, you confide it ♪ ♪ you'll want the world to know it, too ♪ ♪ when you're in love ♪ as i'm in love with you ♪ i know how it is with your brothers, you being the head of the house and all. i wouldn't want you to lose face. and, well, all things considered, maybe you'd better come back in. [rooster crows] [dog barking] bacon! fresh-made coffee! hot bread! it's milly cooking! [takes deep breath] adam must have told her what was what. it sure smells good. i feel like i haven't ate for years. where's my pants? where's my shirt and pants? i'm looking for my own. who hid them on me? all i've got is my boots. milly: good morning, my brothers. if you're looking for your outside clothes, they're drying on the line. i came in before and got them. i couldn't get your inside clothes, so i'll take them now. our underwear? your winter underwear that you're sleeping in. you might as well hand them over 'cause you're not gonna get your clothes or food until you're all cleaned up and shaved. where's adam? we want to talk to adam! he's out plowing. he had breakfast earlier. i got hot muffins waiting, crisp bacon, hot cakes, steak, fired potatoes, fresh-ground coffee. do i get that underwear, or do i have to come take it off you? don't listen to her. she wouldn't dare. milly: oh, wouldn't i? all right, you'll get it. i didn't know last night i'd married into such a handsome family. you're mighty good-looking boys. well, you are, every last one of you. what have you been doing hiding behind those whiskers? afraid some girl will see you and run off with you? why haven't i seen you at dances or cornhuskings or at harvest time? don't you like girls? we ain't never hardly seen one. you've got a big sister now that will see that you do. you want to eat? well, then... o lord, thou hast brought us through desert, mountain, and wilderness to a good land of wheat and game where we need never hunger. we thank thee, o lord, for thy loving care and thy bounty. amen. amen. after you. thank you. frank. where you going, milly? to town, gideon. the flour barrel's getting low, and i've worn out a broom and scrub brush. i'll help you tote them. what's going on? we're going to town. i'll help drive the horses. i'll drive. hey, milly's going to town! let's go with them! whoa! you boys set here and wait. gideon will help me. and don't forget... mind your manners. hey, look... girls! quick. say something. care for a chaw of tobacco? well, i never! that oaf insulted us. no such thing. he just offered them a chaw. it's darn good tobacco. it is, huh? hey, it's us! my window! stop it, benjamin! stop it this minute! don't just stand there. do something. what fer? there's only 3 little ones. stop it! do you hear? all right, milly. it's stopped. you get in that wagon. get! what did i do wrong, milly? well, if you want to get a girl, you got to learn how to talk to her. i'll show you. i'm a girl. you meet me at church. you raise your hat. what's the matter, caleb? my hair ain't combed. well, next, you got to say something nice. gideon, say something nice. nice night for a coon hunt. ha ha ha! you get out of here. you're beating your head against a stone wall. you'll never make jack-a-dandies of them. pay him no mind. you'll all be just fine. it's a month before the barn-raising and picnic. remember one thing. you're going to have a lot of competition because every girl has 5 or 10 fellas buzzing round her. we'll clean them out first thing. the whole lot of 'em. no. that's one thing you mustn't do. if they want to act like hyenas, let them. you've got to be above such things. you gotta act gentlemanly and well-spoken. show the girls you have some etiquette. eti... what? like i showed you at the table. when you meet a girl, don't grab her like she was a flapjack. hold off. offer her your arm. when you're alone, steal your arm around her. you got to court a girl to get her. you got to call her my darling, my dear, my precious, my pet. ♪ going courting, going courting ♪ ♪ oh, it sets your senses in a whirl ♪ ♪ going courting, going courting ♪ ♪ dudin' up to go and see a girl ♪ ♪ oh, it's fun to hunt and shoot a gun ♪ ♪ or to catch a rabbit on the run ♪ ♪ but you'll find it's twice as sporting ♪ ♪ going courting is this what you mean? that's what i mean. ♪ now, there's lots of things you got to know ♪ ♪ be sure the parlor light is low ♪ ♪ you sidle up and squeeze her hand ♪ ♪ let me tell you fellas that it's grand ♪ ♪ you hem and haw a little while ♪ ♪ she gives you kind of half a smile ♪ ♪ you cuddle up, she moves away ♪ ♪ then the strategy comes into play ♪ ow! ha ha ha! see what i mean? ♪ going courting, going courting ♪ ♪ if you find it hard to break the ice ♪ ♪ going courting, going courting ♪ ♪ here's a little feminine advice ♪ ♪ roll your eyes and heave a little sigh ♪ [sigh] ♪ grunt and groan like you're about to die ♪ uh! ♪ that is what's known as emoting ♪ ♪ going courting how about sparking? parlor's darkened? yeah. and you're longing for a fond embrace? what about petting? and sofa setting? suppose she slaps your face? ♪ just remember blessed are the meek ♪ ♪ don't forget to turn the other cheek ♪ ♪ pretty soon, you'll both be larking ♪ ♪ going sparking ♪ going dancing brothers: going dancing? ♪ at a fancy ball or minuet ♪ may i? ♪ going dancing ♪ you'll impress them with your etiquette ♪ now you two try. come on. you mean men are learning how to dance? ♪ yes, it came direct from paris, france ♪ ♪ it will help with your romancing ♪ ♪ going dancing now you follow us. turn. down, up. turn. down, up. come on. this way. step to the right and then the left. make a turn. now weave in and out. hey, this is great! i love dancing! ha ha! i'm dancing! i'm next. now, boys! yippee! oh! oh, boy! yee hee hee! ♪ keep your dancing ♪ and hunting ♪ and shooting ♪ and fighting and trapping ♪ ♪ 'cause we're going courting well, the cleanest fingernails i ever saw. what happened to your thumb, gideon? i soaked it in lye. took offen the dirt all right. dang near took off the nail with it. oh, i'm so proud of all of you. just remember... mind your manners and be real gentlefolk. and no fighting, no matter what happens. what's holding you up? if we're going to a barn-raising, let's go. come on. whoa. who are they? i don't recall seeing them before. they're strangers to me. 7 of them! all as tall as church steeples. it's milly! milly! where are you going? to see milly. i just love milly. looks like them pontipee brothers. milly! alice! mil, i've missed you so! milly, it's been months since i've seen you. i missed you all so much. i baked some pies and such. we'll take them over. i'd be pleasured if you'd allow me. why, thanks. we'll all help. i couldn't let a little lady like you heft that. can we help? please, allow me. if you'll just follow me. to the ends of the earth. afraid that's all. sorry. that's all. may i escort you back? you know, you're the prettiest girl i ever acquainted. may i escort you to the ball, ma'am? it wouldn't hurt you to learn some manners, too. what do i need manners for? i already got me a wife. [clanging] come on, everybody, get your partners! there's going to be dancing. [music starts] ha ha ha! hey! [girls squeal] faster. hey, attaboy, carl! [cheers] [cheers] woman: what happened? woman: i don't know. man: take him, dan. come on, dan! get him. come on, caleb! all right, frank. come on, frank. come on, frank. you got it now. [cheers] ha ha ha! [cheers] neighbors, may i have your attention? all you folk that came from far and wide, henry wants me to thank you men for helping him raise his barn. thanks, folks. and he thanks the ladies for all the fancy vittles. [applause] since the barn's got four sides, there will be four teams. whoever gets done first wins the little heifer. henry, show them annabel. [moo] [laughter] now get your teams set up, and let's see who wins the little lady. adam, we could use her on the farm. how about it, boys? mr. perkins, put the 7 of us brothers down for one team. milly says she's taken a fancy to annabel. you hear, boys? that was adam pontipee. last time he came to town he bragged he always got what he set out to get. danged if he didn't. he's a hard one to beat, i'm warning you. don't worry. we'll handle him. we got a team set up, pete. here's your fourth, pete. got your hammers? then take your positions. the sooner you raise the barn, the sooner you get the vittles. [shouting] pete: are you ready? men: yeah! let's go! [shouting] [dog barking] come on, adam! come on! ow! sorry. i shouldn't have had my hand there. what happened? nothing. caleb, get that board up there. ow! now what happened? i stubbed my big toe. come on. let's get going. frank, get those sideboards up here. hurt yourself, frankincense? come on. let's go. what's the matter with you boys today? just a little dizzy spell. hold it! hold it! he didn't drop that hammer. he threw it. we don't want no fights. we promised milly. come on. we're behind now. she's made you into mama's boys. they're out to murder you, and you apologize for living. you're a disgrace to the pontipee name. you're a bunch of lily-livered, chicken-hearted lickspittles. serves you right. i hope they break your necks. come on, gideon, let's go. what are you doing that for? he ain't done nothing! ha ha ha! [women screaming] oh! aah! no! boys, boys, stop the fight! agh! [creaking] [laughing] witch hazel. split lip. don't smile for a few days. next. two beefsteak. frank. a kick in the pants. next. a loose tooth and swelled-up knuckles. it's a wonder you have any teeth left at all. witch hazel, please. i'm sorry, milly, but when that feller took out after adam... i understand, gideon. you all did your best. good night, boys. good night, milly. good night, milly. i... i feel awful strange-like, milly. here. if it's what i think, witch hazel's not going to help. alice is sweet, isn't she? good night. good night. well... what's the matter with you? did somebody butt you in the breadbasket? no. i felt this way even before the fight... ever since i seen alice. adam... yeah? do... do you reckon i... i could be in love? well, pa used to say love is like the measles. you only get it once. the older you are, the tougher it goes. you ought to get it kind of light. oh, i guess not. well, i don't know as i can answer your question, gideon, but according to milly... and she's had a heap of book learning... ♪ when you're in love, when you're in love ♪ ♪ there is no way on earth to hide it ♪ ♪ when you're in love ♪ really in love ♪ you simply let your heart decide it ♪ ♪ how can you tell ♪ what's in its spell? ♪ how can you tell until you've tried it? ♪ ♪ wait for that kiss you're certain of ♪ ♪ and let your heart decide ♪ ♪ when you're in love ♪ wow. i guess i got the beginnings. them townspeople will never let us court them gals now... not after today. if you don't get this one, another one will come along. one woman is pretty much like the next. come on. let's go feed the stock. [nicker] [nicker] [sheep bleating] ♪ i'm a lonesome polecat ♪ lonesome, sad, and blue ♪ 'cause i ain't got no feminine polecat ♪ ♪ vowing to be true ♪ ooh ooh ooh ooh ♪ ooh ooh ooh ooh ooh ooh ooh ooh ooh ♪ ♪ can't make no vows to a herd of cows ♪ ♪ ooh ooh ooh ooh ♪ ooh ooh ooh ooh ooh ooh ooh ooh ooh ♪ ♪ i'm a mean old hound dog ♪ ♪ baying at the moon ♪ 'cause i ain't got no ♪ ♪ lady friend hound dog ♪ ♪ here to hear my tune ♪ ♪ ooh ooh ooh ooh ♪ ooh ooh ooh ooh ooh ooh ooh ooh ooh ♪ ♪ a man can't sleep when he sleeps with sheep ♪ ♪ ooh ooh ooh ooh ♪ ooh ooh ooh ooh ooh ooh ooh ooh ooh ♪ ♪ i'm a little old hoot owl ♪ ♪ hooting in the trees ♪ ♪ 'cause i ain't got no ♪ ♪ little gal owl fowl ♪ ♪ here to shoot the breeze ♪ ♪ ooh ooh ooh ooh ♪ ooh ooh ooh ooh ooh ooh ooh ooh ooh ♪ ♪ can't shoot no breeze with a bunch of trees ♪ ♪ ooh ooh ooh ooh ♪ ooh ooh ooh ooh ooh ooh ooh ooh ooh ♪ ♪ ooh ooh ooh ooh ♪ ooh ooh ooh ooh whew. it is beautiful, isn't it? not to me. i've seen too much of it. i'm getting out. why, benjamin! i'm not gonna spend another winter here, snowed in for 3, 4 months. what will we do without you? i'd miss you so. there's plenty here to take care of the farm without me. adam! whoa. yeah? benjamin says he's leaving. what? he says it's the winter, but i know it's not that. he's grieving for his girl. they're all grieving. why should they grieve for them girls? they hardly saw them more than once. once is all it takes, if it's the right one. and i had such dreams about all of them living around, dozens of babies and children, visiting at christmastime and birthdays. if benjamin goes, another will go and another. i'll talk to them. whoa. if you could just get a look at yourselves... you look like a bunch of lovesick bull calves. if you're so sweet on those girls, do something about it. go marry them. sure, go marry them as easy as that. they'd never let us marry them. do like the romans did with the sobbin' women. or sabine women. those romans were in the same fix you're in. they was opening up new territory, and women were scarce like here. there was these sobbin' women. what did the romans do? they carried them off. if you can't do as good as a bunch of old romans. you're no brothers of mine. this being oregon and god-fearing territory, you'd have to capture a parson with them. did romans settle north of here? no. this was in olden days. read about it here in milly's book. oh, a book. this is history. this really happened. ♪ tell you about them sobbin' women ♪ ♪ who lived in the roman days ♪ ♪ it seems that they all went swimming ♪ ♪ while their men was off to graze ♪ ♪ well, a roman troop was riding by ♪ ♪ and saw them in their me-oh-my ♪ ♪ so they took them all ♪ ♪ back home to dry ♪ least that's what plutarch says ♪ ♪ oh, yes, them a-woman was sobbin', sobbin', sobbin' ♪ ♪ fit to be tied ♪ every muscle was throbbin', throbbin' ♪ ♪ from that riotous ride ♪ seems they cried and kissed and kissed and cried ♪ ♪ all over that roman countryside ♪ ♪ so don't forget that when you're taking a bride ♪ ♪ sobbin', fit to be tied ♪ ♪ from that riotous ride ♪ so then what happened? gather 'round. i'll tell you. ♪ they never did return their plunder ♪ ♪ the victor gets all the loot ♪ they carried them home by thunder ♪ ♪ to rotundas small but cute ♪ ♪ and you've never seen, so they tell me ♪ ♪ such downright domesticity ♪ with a roman baby on each knee ♪ ♪ named claudius and brute ♪ oh, yes, them a-women was sobbin', sobbin', sobbin' ♪ ♪ passing them nights ♪ while the romans was going out hobnobbin' ♪ ♪ starting up fights is that so? ♪ they kept occupied by sewing lots ♪ ♪ of little old togas for them tots ♪ ♪ and saying, "someday womenfolk will have rights" ♪ ♪ passing all of their nights ♪ just sewing. ♪ while the romans had fights ♪ hey, listen to this. ♪ now, when the menfolk went to fetch them ♪ ♪ the women would not be fetched ♪ ♪ it seems when the romans catch them ♪ ♪ their lady friends stay ketched ♪ ♪ now, let this be, because it's true ♪ ♪ a lesson to the likes of you ♪ ♪ rough them up like them there romans do ♪ ♪ or else they'll think you're tetched ♪ ♪ oh, yes, them a-women was sobbin', sobbin', sobbin' ♪ ♪ buckets of tears mighty sad. ♪ account of old dobbin'dobbin' really rattled their ears ♪ and that ain't all. ♪ oh, they acted angry and annoyed ♪ ♪ but secretly they was overjoyed ♪ ♪ you might recall that ♪ ♪ when corralling your steer ♪ ♪ oh, oh, oh, oh, them poor little dears ♪ why are you sitting there? why don't we get them? ♪ oh, yes, them a-women was sobbin', sobbin', sobbin' ♪ ♪ weeping a ton ♪ just remember what robin, robin, robin hood ♪ ♪ would have done ♪ we'll be just like them there merry men ♪ ♪ and make them all merry once again ♪ ♪ and though they'll be a-sobbin' for a while ♪ oh, yes. ♪ we're gonna make them sobbin' women smile ♪ yeah! yee-ha! ha ha! adam: whoa, there. go get them. be quiet about it. i'll wait for you here. [sotto voce] dan! eph! your two's in here. they're coming out. liza: good night. aah! you got mine! carl: how about my good-night kiss, sarah? sarah: carl, you're so persistent. be a sport. just one kiss. maybe just a little one. close your eyes. why, carl. frank! frank, what are you doing? whoa. that-a boy. get them in. come on, frank. hey, where's gideon? meow. meow. i hear the cat outside. i'll go, mrs. elcott. poor pansy, out on a night like this. meow. meow. meow. meow. meow. m... meow. hurry up, will you? meow. meow. meow. meow. meow. gideon: meow. meow. meow. meow. sounds like pansy has the croup. i'll look out in back. meow. meow. meow. meow. it's all right, alice. she's here. oh! no! aah! dorcas: aah! aah! jenny: dorcas! dorcas! pa! pa, come quick! that-a boy, gideon. aah! [clanging] what's keeping benjamin? i don't know. [clanging] quiet. stay down. let's get out of here. let's go. adam: hah! hah! come on! hah! hah! hah! hah! hah! hah! hah! hyah! come on! [clanging] sarah kines... she's gone! so is alice. ruth jensen, too. where's dorcas? it was them pontipees. the whole 7 of 'em jumped me. come on. we'll get them. hah! giddy-up! hyah! stop that yelling! we're coming to the pass. keep them quiet, or we'll have an avalanche. all right, whoa. slow down. all right, here we go. hold your breath. aah! keep her quiet. hah! hurry up, adam. i hear them coming. [horse whinnies] adam: whoa. whoa. let them go. aah! aah! [gunshots] there she goes! [women crying] [men laughing] ♪ on account of those dobbin', dobbin' ♪ ♪ really rattled their ears ♪ whoa. all right, boys. line them up. oh, milly! milly! what have you done? oh, milly, help us. milly, we've been kidnapped. oh, milly. take these girls back at once. we can't. there was an avalanche. they'll have to wait till spring. it was your idea, wasn't it? i'd say it was more yours. it came out of that book about them sobbin' women. what kind of men are you? are you animals? swooping down like hawks, carrying off poor innocents. they're just young boys in love. didn't you tell me today you wanted them all married? i want my mother. please don't cry, alice. i'm sorry, honest. it was the only way i could get to marry you. adam! we forgot to get the parson! don't worry, now. go on in the kitchen. nothing's gonna happen. cheer up. you got 'em, haven't you? everything will be all right. milly. this house is for the girls. you won't set foot in it as long as they're here. you'll eat and sleep in the barn with the rest of the livestock. now get out of here. i'm ashamed of you. go ahead, boys, go on. you, too. you're taking this too hard. everything will work out fine. we'll get a parson up here. do you think those girls would marry them now? you think because you got a wife so easily, 'cause i didn't make you court me, that that's all there is to it? i said yes because i fell in love the first time i saw you. i thought it was the same with you. milly... think a wife's just to cook and clean. you got no understandings. you got no feelings. how could you do a thing like this? when i think of these girls sick with fright and their families crazed with worry, oh, i can't abide to look at you. [door slams] this isn't where we'd planned on spending the night... in a barn. what do you think you're doing? i'm getting out of here. going to the trapping cabin for the winter. you can't, adam. you can't stay up there alone. the cabin's got enough supplies for six months. don't go. it's us she's mad at. nah. nah, it's more than that. it's something that goes a lot deeper. suppose you get sick or break a leg, up there alone? the wolves are bad this year. the wolves are like good company after what i've been through. [crying] there's nothing like a nice hot cup of tea when you're all tuckered out. [knock on door] it's gideon. i got to speak to you. no, milly! don't! shh! what is it? it's about adam. he's going away up to the mountains, up to the trapping cabin. can you hear me? i hear. just ask him not to go. please, milly. he's gotta learn that he can't treat people this way. now, eph, let's start here. oh! oh! ha ha ha! aah! ow! what's the matter, afraid of a little snowball? snowballs with rocks in them! "them poor little dears, sobbin' buckets of tears." "when the sign was given, "drawing their swords "and following with a great shout, they ravished away the daughters of the sabine." [knock on door] who is it? it's me... caleb. what do you want? it's a mighty cold night, milly. i, uh, i need an extra blanket. go and get one. "the custom continues today "for the bride not of herself to pass her husband's threshold, "but to be lifted over "in memory that the sabine women were carried in by violence." [knock on door] who is it? benjamin. what do you want? my leg is feeling poorly. i, uh... i need some liniment. go ahead, but be quick about it. yes, milly. "some say, too the custom of parting," "the bride's hair with the head of a spear was..." [knock on door] i got me a stiff neck. that's enough of this nonsense! we just wanted to... go to the barn and go to sleep, or i'll bolt the door on you. "was... was in token of their marriages. "it began at first by wars and acts of hostility, "and then," uh... doesn't it do anything but snow up here? we've had a blizzard every day for the past 2 months! i'm going crazy, shut up in this house. alice, why don't you read out loud? no. we've heard that book 3 times already. go on, read about the sobbin' women! please, alice? i can't stand it again. then go get the dress milly promised you, and i'll fit it to you. what's the use when there's no one to see it. no one! i like that... we're no one! where's milly? in the barn, hunting eggs. i wish i could hunt eggs. i love to hunt eggs. which boy slept in this bed, do you suppose? [gasp] dorcas galen! what's the matter? didn't you ever think of that... that you're sleeping in one of their beds? [gasps] i never thought any such thing! liza, alice! come away from that window this minute. i think it's disgusting, standing where they can see you. i notice you peek out often enough when you think no one's looking. i never! i saw you! so did i. you take that back! [shouting] don't you dare say that about martha! what were you doing last night out at the woodpile? oh, you! girls! now, stop! girls! girls! stop it this minute! [shouting] girls, please don't squabble, not now. not when i need you so much. i'm counting on all of you to help me, 'cause i'm going to have a baby. milly! sit down! get comfortable. are you all right? i feel just fine. you won't lift a finger. we'll take over everything. we'll do your chores, cleaning, cooking, everything! that'd be silly. where are you going? i have a few things to do. when's the baby coming? well, you have to be patient. but when? in the spring. oh! i wish it was me. dorcas! i always wanted to be a june bride and have a baby right off. in the spring, maybe. ♪ oh, they say when you marry in june ♪ ♪ you're a bride all your life ♪ ♪ and the bridegroom who marries in june ♪ ♪ gets a sweetheart for a wife ♪ ♪ winter weddings can be gay ♪ ♪ like a christmas holiday ♪ ♪ but the june bride hears the song ♪ ♪ of a spring that lasts ♪ ♪ all summer long ♪ ♪ by the light of the silvery moon ♪ ♪ home you ride ♪ side by side ♪ with the echo ♪ of mendelssohn's tune ♪ ♪ in your hearts as you ride ♪ ♪ for they say when you marry in june ♪ ♪ you will always be a bride ♪ the day a maiden marries ♪ ♪ is the day she carries through the years ♪ ♪ the church is full of flowers ♪ ♪ bridal showers are passé ♪ the groom's waiting at the altar ♪ ♪ here comes the bride ♪ they're each promising to love and obey ♪ ♪ best man is celebrating ♪ every bridesmaid's waiting just to see ♪ ♪ which one of them will catch the wedding bouquet ♪ ♪ for they say when you marry in june ♪ ♪ you will always ♪ always be a bride ♪ in november, the snow starts to fly ♪ ♪ piling up ankle-high ♪ come december, it's up to your knee ♪ ♪ still the bride's a bride-to-be ♪ ♪ january, higher still ♪ to the parlor windowsill ♪ ♪ february finds a drift ♪ and a storm that seems never to lift ♪ ♪ march comes in like a lion, what else? ♪ ♪ still the snow never melts ♪ april showers will come, so they say ♪ ♪ but they don't ♪ and it's may ♪ you're about to forget the whole thing ♪ ♪ all at once ♪ one day, it's spring [sheep bleats] ♪ oh, the barnyard is busy ♪ ♪ in a regular tizzy ♪ ♪ and the obvious reason ♪ ♪ is because of the season ♪ ♪ ma nature's lyrical ♪ ♪ with her yearly miracle ♪ ♪ spring, spring, spring ♪ ♪ all the henfolk are hatchin' ♪ ♪ while their menfolk are scratchin' ♪ ♪ to ensure the survival ♪ ♪ of each brand-new arrival ♪ ♪ each nest is twittering ♪ ♪ they're all baby-sittering ♪ ♪ spring, spring, spring ♪ ♪ it's a beehive of budding son and daughter lives ♪ ♪ every family has plans in view ♪ ♪ even down in the brook, the underwater life ♪ ♪ is forever blowing bubbles, too ♪ ♪ every field wears a bonnet ♪ ♪ with some spring daisies on it ♪ ♪ even birds of a feather ♪ ♪ show their clothes off together ♪ ♪ sun's gettin' shinery ♪ ♪ to spotlight the finery ♪ ♪ spring ♪ spring, spring ♪ from his aerie, the eagle with his eagle eye ♪ ♪ gazes down across his eagle beak ♪ ♪ and affixin' his lady with a legal eye ♪ ♪ screams, "suppose we set the date this week" ♪ ♪ yes, sirree, spring discloses that it's all one supposes ♪ ♪ it's a real bed of roses, waggin' tails, rubbin' noses ♪ ♪ each day is mother's day, the next is some other's day ♪ ♪ when love is king... frank, dan, ben, caleb, everybody! milly's having her baby! come on! oh! oh! oh, liza, martha, ruth, hurry! hurry! [footsteps] [slapping] [baby crying] i'm an uncle. [crying] [baby talking] ooh, ooh, ooh. adam! adam! hey, hey! gideon! couldn't stand the barn any longer, huh? i've come to get you, adam, to take you back with me. yeah... well, milly has a baby. it come day before yesterday. uh... i don't believe it. well, it's as true as i'm standing here. i don't believe it! just one of her tricks to get me back. tricks? why, you lived with milly as man and wife and you don't know nothing about her. she's got pride and she's spunky! why, she'd never bring herself to ask you back. she'd be wasting her breath. i don't figure to go. not even to see the baby? your own kin? your own little girl? a girl? i might have known she'd have a girl. i'll be back when the pass is open. i'll stay away till the shooting's over. adam... you're my eldest brother. and i've always looked up to you, tried to ape you, but today i'm ashamed for you. now i know you can lick me, lick the tar out of me, but i wouldn't hold myself no kind of man unless i showed you how i felt. why, you... now get! the pass is open! the pass is open! all able-bodied men gather at the meeting house! bring your rifles, your sides, your guns, axes, any kind of weapon! the pass is open! are you ready, men? [cheering] let's go! ♪ na, na, num, num, na, na, num, num ♪ ♪ na, na, na, na, na, na, num ♪ na, na, num, num... [laughing] oh, gideon! well, what are you staring at? i told you i'd be back when the pass was open. the pass? oh, milly. carl's there. he'll kill... go upstairs, girls. go on. quickly! let's get the guns. tell them to hitch up the wagon. wagon? put plenty of blankets and straw in it. go ahead. um, what do you call her? well, i was thinking of some name like. hannah or hagar or hephzibah, picking up where your mother left off. hannah. hannah. i got to thinking up there in the mountains thinking about the baby about how i'd feel if somebody came sneaking in and carried her off. i'd string him up the nearest tree shoot him down like i would a thieving fox. i thought about you too while i was up there. it seemed like i couldn't get you off my mind. milly, when you're in love... when you're really in love... [footsteps approaching] the wagon's ready, adam. all right. now get the girls. i want to take 'em back, back to their families. oh, adam... adam, you will be careful? we're not letting you you take 'em back, adam. we talked it over amongst us and we're all agreed. they ain't going. they're our girls now. i say i'm taking 'em back. i'm still head of this family. then i reckon you'll have to show me. likewise. what do i have to do, beat some sense into your dumb heads? don't you know taking 'em back's the only way you're ever gonna get 'em? the whole town's coming up here. let 'em come. we'll fight 'em all. sure you will. and who will you be fighting? the girls' kinfolk. someone's bound to get hurt. a father, a brother maybe. think the girls gonna marry you after that? adam's right. i stand with adam. well, don't stand too close. adam. adam, the girls have gone. they've run away! go get them. get them back. go on! go on! come back here! [crosstalk] hiyah! [whistles] dorcas, come back. you'll get hurt. let's keep it quiet. they can hear us from here. we'll creep up on 'em. alice! please, alice! daniel: martha, where are you? come back, martha. don't run away. [alice yells] i'm not going back! i'm not going back! i want to stay here with you! you've got to. it's the only way. whoa! whoa! it's alice! come on, ruth. aah! aah! [women screaming] hey, there they are! aah! aah! stop! let me go! no! no! no! don't! you'll hit dorcas. [hannah crying] oh, no... not that! [hollering, yelling] grab her dress, ben! man: get a ladder! man: ruth! ruth! please! no, please! why, pa! alice. oh! hey, get up! get up! what are you going to do to him? we're gonna hang him with the rest of 'em from the nearest tree. oh, no... just a minute! just a minute! before we go, there's one thing we've got to know from our girls. girls! girls! now, reverend, what is it you want to know? we're all fathers here, and we love you, so don't be afraid to answer. a while back i heard a wee babe crying in the house. whose is it? whose is it? don't be afraid to tell. all: mine! do you, alice, ruth, martha, liza, sarah, dorcas take these men to be your lawfully wedded husbands? women: we do. and do you, benjamin, caleb, daniel, ephraim, frankincense, gideon take these girls to be your lawfully wedded wives? men: we do. i now pronounce you men and wives. synced by ~ cotangent ~