this is the persian empire known today as iran. for 2,500 years, this land was ruled by a series of kings known as “shahs‟. in 1950, the people of iran elected mohammad mosaddegh a secular democrat, as prime minister. he nationalized british and us petroleum holdings, returning iran’s oil to its people. but in 1953, the us and great britain engineered a coup d’etat that deposed mosaddegh, and installed reza pahlavi as shah. the young child was known for opulence and excess. his wife was rumored to bathe in milk, while the shah had his lunches flown in by concord from paris. the people starved. the shah kept power through his ruthless internal police, the savak. an era of torture and fear began. he then began a campaign to westernize iran, enraging the the mostly traditional shia population. in 1979, the people of iran overthrew the shah. the exiled cleric, ayatollah khomeini, returned to rule iran. it descended into score settling, death squads and chaos. dying of cancer, the shah was given asylum in the us. the iranian people took to the streets outside the us embassy, demanding that the shah be returned, tried… and hanged. argo — based on a true story. transcript and sync: jcdr u.s. embassy, iran november 4, 1979 subtitles downloaded from podnapisi.net the carnival is a little bigger today, huh? the windows are supposed to be bulletproof, right? they have never been tested. okay, you just need to finish filling out this section here. we need some security. yes, it is your responsibility— they drew over the walls. we should all split. i’m gonna close up my office. my god! marins to number 1. full back. — look, i need police, — can anyone hear me? — i need police right now. — we’re on the second floor. — you understand me? — we need help. right now, goddamn it! can anybody hear me? there is a breach. burn everything! burn it, now! alright burn everything, all the files, file cabinets, safe. lets get a cart over here. burn it all, come on! burn everything, including the classified. everything! don’t fucking shoot anybody. you don’t want to be the son of a bitch who started the war. they need an hour to burn the classified. i need you to hold. if you shoot one person, they’re gonna kill every single one of us in here. i’m telling you if we’re going to go, we need to go now! — and we need to make a decision, and— — joe can we— joe can we wait, can we wait until the iranian police come? — no! — they’re not coming. how do you know they’re not coming? they may well be coming. the police have abandoned their post— if the police are not coming, okay, then the army’s gonna come. the prime minister is not gonna let the embassy be taken over. i understand. the prime minister may come tomorrow, but the komiteh are here today. alright, is there—is there any value that we’re waiting 15— look at me! no one is coming. burn it! we have forty minutes. get it down to the incinerator, in the vault. now! tear gas is a last resort only. i repeat: only if you’re under threat. in here, we are in america right now, outside of these doors, we are in iran! i’m not going out there! — they’re not safe here. alright, first let’s get these— if they get caught applying for visas to the us… you know what, lets— lets wait five minutes. we’re in the only building with direct access to the street, if we’re going to go, then we need to go now! — yeah, i’m in. — yeah. yeah, lets go. i’m going outside. why? to reason them. open the door! open the door! open this goddamn door! you said you wanna see the world, elton? let me in! let me in! — burn it all, come on! — right come on, guys! the safe and the filing cabinets get long. all four drawers, i want them shredded, right now! but the shred not fast enough. guys, get the visa plates. all four, and anything else you see out there. if in doubt, you shred it. we’ve got ten minutes, lets go, go, go, everything! get the shredder. there are no police. — okay. — come on. — where do we go? — we gotta get off the streets. this way, up here to the left. these fucks hit us, we can’t hit ‘em back? mossaddegh, we did it to them first. the soviets would put up with this shit, they would fucking invade them. shaffer! sir, what d’you expect? we helped the guy torture and deball an entire population. how many were there? at least fifty. we’re not sure. shaffer! you still haven’t found shaffer? no i was screaming his name ’cos i was fucking ‘em. it’s confirmed, sir, six escaped. i was told five. now sir, apparently it’s six. so what happened? not clear. we know they escaped the embassy. where are they? the canadian ambassador’s house. do they stay put? are we attempting a rescue? i put through the secretary of state. yes. is white house joining? they’re claiming the embassy was a den of espionage. we wish it was a fucking den of espionage. cia’s got three people over there, they don’t see a revolution coming? call it something other then intelligence. hold for the chief of staff. harding? i’ll call him back. they’re sticking to it, no release till we expel the shah. well, put him on a plane then, fuck him! he’s half dead and he’s in chemo. well, we took him in, he’s ours now. great, so we’ll take any prick as long as he’s got cancer? just the pricks on our side. so all of our other pricks on their prick thrones will know that when they get thrown out on a rail, they won’t get their fucking spleens taken out by some camel vet in sinai. what about the six who are with the canadians? we’ve got sixty in the embassy with guns to their heads right now. the whole world is watching the embassy. that makes them safer than the six on the street. bonnie sauder’s saying it will be over in twenty-four hours. we leave the six where they are. i’ll go brief the president. right, i’ll through it. iran’s revolutionary guard, has rounded up a gang of terrorist blamed for one murder of a half-dozen followers of ayatollah khomeini. it says security at khomeini’s home now has been raised. this by the way, is the 69th day that the american hostages have been held in tehran, there is no change reported in the hostage situation. in this country, george mitty died last night, he was eighty five years old. yeah. yes. what? to begin with, of course, we wanted to learn about the hostages held in the american embassy compound. they may not understand what their ordeal means to their countrymen. that this nation, their nation, is outraged. and we cannot really know what it is like inside the prison that was once our embassy. actions of iran have shocked the civilized world. our embassy has been seized, and more than sixty american citizens continue to be held as hostages— as the situation in iran this morning is unchanged for the hostages— the nbc situation in iran has changed however— what happened? six of them went out a back exit. brits turned them away, kiwis turned them away, canadians took ‘em in. traffic calls them ‘house guests’. they haven’t left the canadian ambassador’s house since it happened. why didn’t we get them ten weeks ago? too dangerous. we got revolutionary guards going door to door, like jehovah’s witnesses. half of them think that khomeini’s been too lenient on the ones in the embassy. what about the white house? carter’s shitting enough bricks to build the pyramids. the canadians are done, they say they’re baring too much risk. their foreign secretary corners vance in brussels, and told him she wants the six of them out. who else knows? just the families. meanwhile, some genius in our embassy was keeping a mug book on everybody who worked there. jesus christ! we think it got shredded before they got in. but now the bastards are using sweatshop kids to reassemble the shreds. once they reassemble that book, they’ll know six americans got out and they’ll know what they look like. standing room only for beheadings in the square. who’s handling? state is coordinating in-house. state? they don’t do exfil’s. they do now. they wanna run it by us, strictly as consultants. engell says, it’s a lose–lose. these people die, they die badly, publicly. state wants the blame, we’ll give it to ‘em. what does he want me here for? so he can tell state he ran it by his best exfil guy. okay. this is bob pender from state os, he’s been talking to morgan, an ex-staff. thank you. alright. mark and cora lijek, twenty-nine and twenty-five, he’s a consular officer, she’s an assistant, newly weds, they uh… only just got there a couple months ago, no language skills or in-country knowledge. henry lee schatz, agricultural attaché from idaho, a bit of an oddball apparently, he was there to sell u.s. tractors to iranian agro. joe stafford, late twenties he’s smart and a climber, speaks farsi, he arranged the hire of his wife, kathy. the embassy was understaffed, so the faculty wives were the typing pool. and bob anders, senior consular officer, oldest of the group, and most likely to be group leader. they’ve been hiding at the canadian ambassador’s residence. fortunately, we do not believe the iranians are aware the six have escaped. so… what we’d like for this are bicycles. we’ve identified back roads from the chamran district, couple of rat lines through the mountains to the crossing near tabriz. cars are off the table, because of the road blocks. we wait until the weather clears up, then deliver the six bikes, provide them with maps to the turkish border. we have intelligence, they can ride bicycles or we’re prepared to send in somebody to teach ‘em. or you could just send in training wheels and meet them at the border with gatorade. tony… it’s three hundred miles to the turkish border. they’d need a support team following them with a tire pump. we were just asked to sharp shoot this, state is handling the ops. i’m sorry, who is this? tony is an exfil spesh, he’s got a lot of shah’s people out after the fall. sir, if these people can read or add, pretty soon they’re gonna figure out they’re six short of a full deck. it’s winter. you can’t afford to wait around until spring, so it’s nice enough to take a bike ride. they only way out of that city is the airport. you build new cover identities for ‘em, you send in a moses, he takes them out on a commercial flight. we’ve explored those options. you’re never gonna get them through airport control, komiteh own the place. they could pose as reporters, if the government issued seventy something… — seventy four. — visas, — for american journalists… — and the revolutionary guards keep them on seventy four leashes. if they’re caught with fake journalist creds, it’s peter and jane’s head in a noose in an hour. look, north america accents gives us limited options, so we get the canadians to issue them passports. what about english teachers at the international school? it’s a good idea, but that school’s been closed for eight months. okay, so how about ’the do-gooders’? six canadians have been over there inspecting crops, ensuring the kids are getting enough to eat, we give them creds, makes them look like ag’ ngos. it’s a ‘feed the kids’ thing. okay. those kids are black. those are african kids. we can get ethnically appropriate kids. are there starving kids in iran? i’m sure there’s some skinny kids in iran. what about missionary? — or… seeds… called… “seeds of hope‟. hold on… sir, do you have this newspaper in front of you? would you mind taking a look at it? what’s in this picture? tehran. right. what’s on the ground? — snow. — right. so what crops are the ‘do-gooders’ inspecting under frosting? sir… exfils are like abortions. you don’t wanna need one. but when you do, you don’t do it yourself. you have a better plan? no sir. what ever the conflicting signals from iran today, for that matter everyday, about whether the hostages will or will not be tried as spies, the government of the united states has not deviated from its basic demands: the hostages must be freed. .. to defend human rights, it not only does not defend them, it violates them for all nations. we demand extradition of a man who for more than 37 years, with the united states support, has killed months old babies in the arms of their mothers. he said that if the americans try military force to rescue the hostages, the students will kill them all and blow up the embassy. americans were outraged at iran and anyone iranian. before this decision was taken, there was a demonstration in houston. an iranian flag was burned, while anti-iranians demonstrators gathered near the iranian consulate. the demonstrators— .. also it’s what led to a decision to scrutinize the bases of the iranian— they knew exactly what was going on, they knew it. but i don’t understand wha— what they should do now, send them back, just to— to be tortured and killed? i don’t think that justice is the worst thing. when did people first tell you that torture was going on in iran? they would never come to me and say: “well sir, we have tortured this fellow‟. .. sadat of egypt he calls you imam, forgive me, his words not mine: a lunatic. why didn’t he have a choice, why do you think he didn’t have a choice? because he would have been referred to as a barbarian. — please! — that’s why they’re stating he liked the current regime! the shah did more for women’s right— i think we’ve better if… please everyone, get into the coal. .. get out of here! at one point the mob cornered one of iranians. when he tried to protect himself, this is what happened. hit him again! hit him until he can’t take it anymore! we’re sick of them! — yeah! america! .. even in our little community here, i mean people are drawn uptight, they’re tense. they shouldn’t even let those students in that embassy there. just shoot a couple of ‘em. show ‘em we mean business. men who served in vietnam for what they believed was right are angry. i’m mad as hell. i’m—i’m like the guy screaming on that movie program in ‘network’ you know, i’ve had it! and if huh… if need be i’ll bear arms again! that’s the way it is, wednesday, january 16th, 1980. 74th day of captivity for 50 americans in iran. hello? my man! i’ll get mom. i’m calling for you. did you do your homework tonight? yeah it was easy. excellent. what are we watching? battle for the planet of the apes. tell me, what channel is it on? five. alright. what did you do at school today? nothing, i don’t know. nothing. it can’t be nothing. something must’ve happened. after school i’ve traded baseball cards— hmm–hmm… ok you know those science fiction, star trek, star wars, they need an exotic location to shoot, moonscape, mars, desert, you know… now image this. they’re a canadian film crew on a location scout for a science fiction movie. we put it out there, the canadian producers put it out there. they were looking at egypt, istanbul. then we go to the consulate and say: ’hey, we want to look in iran too’. i fly into tehran, we all fly out together as a film crew. done. flamboyant cover identity should be avoided as it increases operational visibility. this is a lot more plausible than foreigners who wanna become teachers in iran. you want to blend in with the population you don’t look like a rodeo clown. just gonna wake up tomorrow morning and be in the movie business? we already have credentials for the teachers. no sir, we have a contact in— — chambers. — john chambers, he’s a hollywood prosthetics guy, he’s got an oscar, he did planet of the apes he’s done a bunch of contract work for us in the past. i go see him, he sets this up. one, two days, make it look real. i went outside for thirty seconds. alright? could you give me a break? i can’t breath in this house. i need some fresh air, i can’t—i can’t breath! stay inside the fucking house! who saw me go outside, i’m just curious? — that’s not the point. — that’s not the point bob. doesn’t matter if i saw you go out or you see me. — did you see me go out? — no! you did go outside… i did. okay, i saw you. bob, it only takes one second for them to spot you. some americans are missing. look at the repaired list of embassy employees. the numbers don’t match. finish assembling the pictures from the embassy. all i need is their faces and i will find them. yes sir, it’ll be done. we want you to go to la. if you can make the movie thing credible, we’ll take it to the director. don’t fuck up. the whole country is watching you. they just don’t know it. my creation… my creation! what the fuck, bryan? — cut! — we are cutting! chambers! john chambers make up! he says the minotaur prosthetic is too tight so he can’t act. if he could act, he wouldn’t be playing a minotaur. mr. chambers… kevin arkins. hey tony. what are you shooting? monster movie. yeah? any good? target audience will hate it. who’s the target audience? people with eyes. talk to me. it’s an exfil. from where? worst place you can think of. universal studio. how are you gonna get in the embassy? they’re not in the embassy. during the takeover six people escaped. they’re hiding out in tehran… and that’s who i’m gonna go get. what am i making? i need you to help me make a fake movie. well, you’re in the right place. i wanna setup a production company and build a cover around making a movie. — that we’re not gonna make. — no. so you wanna come to hollywood and act like a big shot, yeah. — without actually doing anything. — no. you’ll fit right in. let’s see. well this one has got an m.a. in english, she should be your screenwriter. sometimes they go along on scouts because they want their free meals. here’s your director. can you teach somebody to be a director in a day? you teach a recess monkey to be a director in a day. look if you’re gonna do this, you gotta do it. the kominiacs are fruit loops, but they got cousins who sell prayer rugs and a-tracks on le brea. you can’t build cover stories around a movie that doesn’t exist. you need a script, you need a producer. make me a producer. no. you’re… an associate producer at best. you’re gonna do a 20 million dollars star wars rip-off. you need somebody who’s a somebody, to put their name on it. somebody respectable… with credits… who you can trust with classified information… who’d produce a fake movie… for free. hi, i only got a couple of minutes. i’m getting a lifetime achievement award. mazel tov, lester. i’d rather stay home and count the wrinkles on my dog’s balls. okay. you got six people hiding out in a town of what… 4 million people, all of whom chant death to america’ all the live long day. you want to set up a movie in a week, you want to lie to hollywood, a town where everybody lies for a living, then you’re gonna sneak 007 over here, into a country that wants cia blood on their breakfast cereal, and you’re gonna walk the brady bunch out of the most watched city in the world. that’s about a hundred militia at the airport. that’s right. right. look i… i got to tell ya, we—we did suicide missions in the army that had better odds than this. sir, the car is here. you ever think, lester, this is all for the cameras? well, they’re getting the ratings, i’ll say that for them. we’re going to need a script. i love you. sahar, how are you doing? fine, thank you. your friends from canada, ma’am, all this time, they never go out. sahar knows. how about ‘the horses of achilles’? νо gооd. νоbоdy dоеѕ wеѕtеrnѕ аnymоrе. it’s ancient troy. if it’s got horses in it, it’s a western. hey, kenny please? yeah it’s john chambers, about the office space. it doesn’t matter. it’s a fake movie. if i’m doing a fake movie, it’s going to be a fake hit. cardinal wants all cover options on his desk friday morning. engell’s prepping the bikes option, teachers option, you have 72 hours to make yours better. fine. hey is 8006 still on the open list? yeah i’ll hold. fade in on a starship landing. an exotic middle eastern vibe. women gather offering ecstatic libations to the sky gods. argo. “a science–fantasy adventure.‟ it’s a turnaround, it’s dog shit. it’s a space movie in the middle east. does it matter if— could we get the option? why do we need the option? you’re worried about the ayatollah? try the wga. just let me do the talking. i’ve known this guy for 25 years, he’s full of shit, and he comes on hard, but uh… i can handle it. you want to go into production with this in one month? up like a carny ride. one month, yeah. — who are you again? — kevin arkins, studio 6 films. he’s the money. look, what d’you say uh… fifteen thou’and, let’s close on this? you want me to be honest with you, les? no. i would like you to bullshit me, max. alright. i enjoyed your films, the early ones. i took this meeting out of respect, because i wanted to say no to your face. thank you. very respectful. you’re finished, lester. get your cataracts fixed, read the trades. mgm just capitalized for six new films. they’re screaming for sci-fi. they’re offering me four times what you guys are offering me. well… what can i say? congratulations. but see, it kind of worries me what you said, let me tell you why. couple of weeks ago i was sitting at trader vic’s, i was enjoying a mai tai, when my pal, warren beatty comes in, he wishes me well, we have a little chat. seems he was attached to star in ‘zulu empire’, which was just gonna anchor that mgm slate. but warren confided in me that the picture’s gone over budget because the zulu extras want to unionize. they may be cannibals, but they want health and dental so the movie’s kaput! which means that the mgm deal ain’t gonna happen, and your script ain’t worth a buffalo shit on a nickel! so, the way it looks to me through the cataracts i grant you, is that you can either sign here, and take 10,000 dollars for your toilet-paper script, or you can go fuck yourself! with all due respect. you really know warren beatty? yes i do. i took a leak next to him once at the golder globes. taco? got any kids, lester? yeah, i have two daughters. see ‘em much? i talk to ‘em once a year… maybe. why is that? i was a terrible father. the bullshit business… it’s like coal mining, you—you come home to your wife and kids, you can’t… you can’t wash it off. you? yeah i got a son. he lives in virgina with his mother. you’re divorced? taking time off. he needs to be, you know… where he is. kids need the mother. they caught the shah’s chief of security trying to get on a plane to paris. listen, “since the incident, the number of guards at the airport has doubled, a thorough background examination should be expected‟. the movie cover isn’t strong enough yet, i need another week, jack. you don’t have it. we got an office, we got business cards, we got a poster. if i’m the revolutionary guard, there’s nothing we couldn’t have made at home. six people’s lives depend on this. it’s not enough. if we’re gonna fool these people, it has to be big, and it has to have something that says it’s authentic. i did a movie with rock hudson one time. if you want to sell a lie… get the press to sell it for you. no no no, press event, then they’re— they’re gonna read through the script. i got a bunch of actors who are gonna read from beginning to end, all the way through. they have costumes and everything. no, no, no, i can’t, i got, uh, variety has the exclusive on that. any way to make this more uh… middle eastern? mesopotamia? egypt? iran. look, i can get you in, but you gotta promise me at least half a page. no, no, this thing’s an event, it’s going to be a spectacle. lester. nina, you look fabulous! you doing the reading? i’m playing serksi, the galactic witch. great, i’ll call ya. keep that fucking space witch away from me. you know her? i was married to her. oh my god, iraq is amazing! well, we’re shooting in iran. iran with an n? yeah. we’re very excited. you ever watch the news? what does the title refer to? the argo! the thing… like jason and the golden fleece, or what? no, no, it’s the ship, it’s the— the spaceship, it goes… it goes everywhere, it goes all… …all throughout space. so it’s the argonaut? no. what—what does argo mean? i don’t know. you don’t know? it means “argo, fuck yourself‟! will you pay me every attention, ladies and gentlemen? if our artists could settle in, we’ll just be ready to begin the reading. argo. from mary ann boyd. begin on starship… the people working here are not diplomats. in fact, as the iman khomeini said, they have found no evidence that proves that these people are diplomats. all evidence proves that these people are spies. in the name of god, the beneficent, the merciful, our message to the waking peoples of the world, at this time we want to expose the hateful acts of united states… our world has changed, fires of hope stopped burning in this galaxy long ago. the ship is turning around. fire the thrusters! he says a gravitational field that strong will kill any… .. completely unjustified. they and all others must know that the united states of america will not yield to international terrorism or to blackmail. sir, we’ll be crashed. there’s no enough time to… — .. are controlled by capitalists, and large oil companies. the united states government considers revolutionists as terrorists, but itself and its cia are the most terrorizing organization of all time. we’ll find her ship, we will find our chance. for the argo lies my hope, my hero, my husband. .. we will begin the trials and carry out the sentences. .. we wonder where and how this apparently endless parade of hatred will end. embassy basement january 23, 1980 embassy basement january 23, 1980 what do they want? they say the question should be not ‘what’, but ‘who’. the answer to this question is clear, they want the former shah, .. they should be ashamed to talk about human rights. carter and his government have given asylum to the worst criminal. — .. in this compound, for what, for life? they will remain until the shah is returned. but if the exiled shah, now in the new york city hospital, leaves the united states for any place other than iran, harsher decisions will be taken against the hostages. .. we go outside of the ship now, holding on a single red flower as it goes to the ruins of the starship in the desert, fade to back. the end. here it is. what did i tell you! first shot of the picture. “argo, fuck yourself.‟ argo, fuck yourself. office of the secretary of state january 25, 1980 brace yourself. it’s like talking to those two old fucks from the muppets. aliens and robots? yes, sir. you’re telling me that there is a movie company in hollywood right now, that is funded by the cia? — yes, sir. what’s wrong with the bikes again? we tried to get the message upstairs, sir. you think… you think this is more plausible than teachers? yes, we do. one, there are no more foreign teachers in iran… and we think everybody knows hollywood people, and everybody knows they ain’t shootin’ stalingrad, with bob hope directing if it would sell tickets. there are only bad options, it’s about finding the best one. you don’t have a better bad idea than this? this is the best bad idea we have, sir. by far. the united states government has just sanctioned your science fiction movie. thank you, sir. i’m required to remind you that if you are detained, the agency will not claim you. barely claim me as it is. is there any in case of obstacle? just christine. i should have brought some books to read in prison. no. they’ll kill you long before prison. — thanks for the ride. — yeah. — studio 6. — we got a green light. keep the office running until you hear otherwise. — argo fuck yourself. — argo fuck yourself. your attention please, this is the final calling for british airways flight 87. we are a nation of 35 millions, and many of these people are looking for to murder them. hey. hey. come to bed. another 5 minutes. she pleaded with me. when it started in the streets nine months ago, she… she begged for us to leave. she packed our bags. i said, “just—just a little bit longer‟. and all i was thinking was… “stay… this is good for me. stay. show newsom you got the balls‟. i can’t believe i put kathy in this position. i think we’re gonna die here. istanbul, turkey january 27, 1980 “iran is a hundred percent not in a pre-revolutionary state‟. cia brief, november, 1st, 1979. can’t be right all the time. kevin? when did you get back? the shah escaped on the 747 so laden with gold bars, that they didn’t make it off the runway. but you kept busy. fairing out the torture apparatus of our friends fallen dictation. it’s getting worse. anyone that lands at mehrabad now fills in one of these. this strip makes a copy to the one underneath, passenger keeps yellow, airport keeps white, when you leave the country, they match them up to verify you came into the country when you say you did. so if they look, they’ll see i didn’t come into the country with six people. if they look. when you land, you should go straight to the ministry of culture and… islamic guidance, kiss the ring. get on record as having applied for film permit. if they catch you later, at least they’ll be confused while they’re torturing you. iranian consulate — turkey what will be the purpose of your visit to iran? uh… film production. business. why didn’t you get your visa in canada? well, i would have loved to, except my boss didn’t send a telex until i got here. if the guy had an intelligent thought in his head, it would die of loneliness. the times and ap found out six escaped. they know who they are, and they know they’re hiding out with the canadians. somebody withdrew on the family’s talk. mother of god. yeah i just put vance on a plane to take the head of eds to a circus, he thinks he can get him to sit on it for now. you guy’d better get them. and get the hell out. the captain has informed us that we’re entering iranian airspace. we’ll be coming through to collect any remaining alcoholic beverages. this film crew is just yourself? no, we have six more from canada meeting us today. you’d like to film at the bazaar? the bazaar, maybe the palace. landmark sites. i see. the exotic orients. snake charmers, flying carpets. you came to us at a complicated time. before the revolution forty percent of the movie theaters in tehran were showing pornograph. i understand. the function of this office is purification, as well as promotion for the arts. i’ll review this for the ministry. thank you. — salam. — salam. lester, you’re working late. until the dawns early light. you got stamina, lester. i wanna be you. well, i’m a hundred and fifty years old, so you wouldn’t be me for long. — ambassador. — ken taylor. thank you for what you’re doing. i was expecting more of a g-man look. i think you’re thinking of the fbi, sir. ah. this way. these are blank—you know, stamps… yeah, i’ll take care of this. how long? a day to prep their covers… two if they need it. and—and you’ll fly out with them? yeah. there’s something you should know. we think our housekeeper’s figured out who they are. we don’t know if we can trust her. so, sooner is better. hi. hi. my name’s kevin harkins… and i’m gonna get you home. these are the screenplays for your cover identities. it’s—it’s theater of the absurd. what are our chances? chances are good. good? well, what’s the uh… what’s the number value of good? a thirty percent chance of being publicly executed? can you—can you tell me what the objection was to normal cover identities? there are no canadians in the country for no reason. they’ll sniff us out regardless. the swedish consul, they—they accused him of being an american at the airport, they held him for an hour. we can’t hold upon that, we don’t know what the hell movie people do. that’s why i’m here. i’m gonna help you, i’m gonna be with you the whole way. this is what i do. have you gotten people out this way before? this would be a first. do you know that everyday they catch another friend of the shah at the airport? — joe… — kangaroo trials, and— and then firing squads just for having american names in their phone books. you’ve been here and hour, and—and you’re asking us to trust you with our lives, mr… harkins. that’s your real name? no. i know there are risks involved. serious risks. but it is time to go. we’ve got orders to close the embassy and go back. there’s nowhere for them to stay. we will never make it through immigration at the airport. i’m serious. i mean no, this is what? the part we say, this is so crazy it might actually work? — come on! — i saw in burma, they get people out. snitches and banana republic, they get them over the border after the coup, pay the guards at the crossing a hundred bucks to look the other way. you know, his opinion got us out in the first place. if we go out there with fake passports, we are spies, period, that’s execution. you got a problem lying, joe? but the point is, we can’t stay here! if we get caught, you and pat go on trial for harboring the enemy, you know that. pat and i have discussed this, it’s the risk we took. that man out there has got bad cards and he is going to lose, and if he loses… it’s our lives. and his life too. look, we don’t have any alternatives. we gotta go. these cover identities were created specifically for each one of you. what you need to do is memorize everything that’s inside. who you are, what you are, where you’ve been, complete bio. and then add to that: where do you vacation, what are you allergies, who’d you have an affair with. the only way this works, is if you believe that you’re these people so much that you’re dream like them. get started tonight. i’ll be back tomorrow. we’ll get going. good luck. wow, my guy kind of sucks. what’s your name? mike mcewan a. sounds convincing. kathy, what’s your name? the loveboat will be seeing fifteen minutes from now. .. insisted that the crisis in afghanistan will not divert the attention of the united states from the plight of the hostages. .. he seems to be if not impotent, but at least reluctant… the united states finds itself in such bitter confrontation with the soviet union over that country’s invasion of afghanistan… the united states is now moving towards the decision to boycott the summer olympics in moscow. bad new, bad news. even when it’s good news, it’s bad news. john wayne’s in the ground six months, this is what’s left of america. the minister of culture and guidance has approved your location scout. he will send his representative to meet you and your crew at the grand bazaar tomorrow at 3 p.m. they called your bluff. — maybe they’re cooperating. — absolutely not. seven americans walking the bazaar is asking for a riot, it’s the hive. seven canadians, jack. never give them opening shots at a cover. — are they even ready? — they’re getting there. there’s no prize for most improvements. i don’t have a choice. we say no, they show up at their residence and drag everyone out at gun point. how well do you think their covers are gonna hold up when they’re getting their fingernails pulled out? you want us to go the grand bazaar at three o’clock in the afternoon? you said a day learning our cover then straight to the airport. — do they suspect something? what i know is we need to pretend to be a movie crew. we go to the bazaar today, we fly from the airport tomorrow. we won’t do it. he told them that there are six of us, so then they’re expecting six, it would be suspicious not to show up at this point. goddammit, guys! what else do we have to do?! alright? what el—what— what’s the alternative?! we don’t have to show them the only cards we’re holding, which is that they don’t know we’re here! i get it! that’s the ball game, okay, we—you know, look, we don’t have any other… other choice! what are we gonna do?! who says that we’ll know our covers well enough? we’re no in the cia! it’s suicide. i’m asking you to trust me. i don’t trust you. this is the game, joe. what world are you living in? what world am i…? the one where they’re hanging people from construction cranes, bob! it’s too dangerous, — i don’t want to bring my wife into this. — joe, can you stop? joe? so, we’ll see you at two. so, don’t be recognizable, but look exactly like your passport photo. i haven’t been this nervous since our wedding. only this isn’t a huge mistake, hopefully. like this… okay. hello? hello? hello? who was that? — mark? — yeah? i’m scared. it’s okay. where are they? in the kitchen. this is what i do… i get people out… and i’ve never left anyone behind. i wish i could believe you, mr. harkins. my name is tony mendez. i’m from new york, my worked construction, my mother teaches elementary school, i have a wife and a ten year old son. you play along with me today, i promise you i will get you out tomorrow. fuck. hang on. you alright? okay, tell me who you are? mike mcewan, cameraman. robert baker, director. timothy harris, location manager. mary ann boyd, screenwriter. rachel dewart, production designer. sean bissett, associate producer. alright, let’s go make the movie. welcome, welcome, my name is reza borhani. kevin harkins, i’m the producer. — nice to meet you. — this is mike mcewan, our cameraman, this is tim, this is mary, our screenwriter, and this is our director, bob baker. — you are the director? — yes. is this film a foreign brides film? i’m sorry? a film where a foreign bride comes to iran, but uh… she doesn’t understand the language or the customs, and there is misunderstandings and laughs? oh, no. the bazaar in tehran is one of the largest in the world. [farsi] izar, salam, choukran. this bazaar has been on this spot for over 8000 years. you can find many items such as paper, spices, precious metals all, right here. uh, right this way. [farsi] this way. — uh, mike? — yeah. if i was to say that you’re looking through the wrong end of that view finder, would i be right? yeah. just a little bit now. [farsi] [farsi] please wait here, let’s uh, stay together. he wants to know the photograph you took… it’s okay, it’s her job to take photographs. production design. he says, he did not give you permission to take photograph of his store. well that’s okay, you can tell him he can have it. please, please take that photograph. — [farsi] peace be upon you. — and upon you sir. welcome. i hope you are well. thank you very much. how are you? i’m very well. what’s your name? sahar. he’s saying that the shah killed his son with an american gun. no! canada! cana—canada! ι’d lіkе tо ѕuggеѕt thаt wе аrе еndіng thіѕ vіѕіt! let’s go off this now! you know, sister, those who are with him, rasool allah, we are tender with them. but stern against the infidels. with god’s will. but those who sit silently have sinned. yes. any way i may help, sir? no, only one thing. how long have they been there? sorry? the guest of the ambassador… how long have they been here? they arrived two days ago. forgive my intrusion, we must stay vigilant. everyone in this house is a friend of iran. how did it go? what about tomorrow? tomorrow they’ll be ready. a man in scranton is placing a flag in his lawn for every day of captivity. he runs out of lawn, kennedy wins the primary. the six with the canadians are coming out. who signed off on this? you! where was your passport issued? — vancouver. — where were you born? — toronto — “torono‟. canadians don’t pronounce the t. some komiteh guard is actually gonna know that? if you’re detained for questioning they will bring out someone who knows that, yes. mary, who were the last three prime ministers to canada? uh… trudeau, pearson and diefenbaker. — what’s your father’s name? — howard. — what’s his occupation? — fisherman. — where were you born? — halifax, nova scotia. what’s your date of birth? february 21st, 1952. good. what’s your job on the movie? — producer. associate producer. what was the last movie you produced? — “high and dry‟. — who paid for that? — cfdc. — what’s your middle name? what’s your middle name? what’s your middle name? — leon… — shoot him! he’s an american spy. look, they’re gonna try and break you. okay? by trying to get you agitated. you have to know your resume back to front. do you really believe your little story’s gonna make a difference when there’s a gun to our heads? i think my story is the only thing between you and a gun to your head. that’s right. hey. they made it through the location scout. you have a call. — what is it? — go to black on green. go. — it all just changed. — what? they’re calling it again, you gotta come back. — what? — flight chiefs are planning a military rescue of the hostages, delta force started training to storm the grounds. so, if the six of them are brought down there, they won’t be held for long. goddammit! i never would have exposed them if i wasn’t authorized to get them out! — it’s over, tony. — if they stay here, they will be taken. — probably not alive. — listen to me! the thinking has changed. six americans get pulled out of the canadian diplomat’s house and executed, it’s a world outrage. six americans get caught playing movie make–believe with the cia at the airport and executed, it’s a national embarrassment. they are calling the operation. we’re responsible for these people. what we are is required to follow orders. i’m sorry. come in. we’re ready to try again. you’re ready. you worked hard. probably the best thing to do for you right now would be… just to relax. okay. you did good. thanks. so you know. exfil wants you to burn the passports before you leave. if you tell them now, they’ll panic. i think it’s best if you just don’t show. it was always a fucked mission. you came closer than anybody else. it’s off… they want us to pack up the office. this can wait. let’s go get a drink. he’s late. o’donnell. somebody’s responsible when things happen, jack. i’m responsible. i’m taking them through. tony? alan! alan, we need to confirm those seven tickets out of tehran on swissair. engell shut that down. i say it’s back on! — i can’t do it, it’s back stopped! — wait wait, wait a minute! what the hell are you talking about, back stopped, what the hell does that mean? carter’s gotta say yes for us to get the tickets. time to go. alright. — where’s engell? — uh, he’s in a meeting. pull him out. pull him out! thank you. see you soon. sahar’s on the bus. — great. — sahar will be fine. — thank you. — thank you! you two leave right now. we’ll leave on the train in half an hour. good. and he said no. this is not a long leisure and it never has been, and you don’t decide if it goes! it is going! jack. you are this close. am i? am i really that close? you are this goddamn close to— i am not gonna leave him at the airport with six people and his dick in his hand. you tell the director to call the white house! do your fucking job! — get to your plane, claude — oui monsieur. first time anyone’s gonna ask you a question is at the first check point. the first check point is just to get a look at your passports. passports came straight from ottawa last week. they’re clean. you’re gonna find white house chief of staff! how would i find him? we’re a fucking spy agency! find him! the second check point is immigration. you’re each gonna hand them one of these. it says that you landed in the country two days ago. they’ll look for the matching white one, which doesn’t exist. you’ll say you don’t know what happened… and if you believe they lost they white set, they’ll believe it too. jordan’s in the west wing, he’s not taking calls. where are his kids? what? where do his kids go to school? thank you, thank you. pace academy, buckhead, georgia. white house. yes, this is mr. murphy from pace academy calling for mr. jordan. yeah, i’m afraid it is an emergency. hold for the chief of staff’s office. the third check point is the trap. it’s manned by the revolutionary guard, most of them were educated in the u.s and europe… and all of them are looking for americans. — hello? — jack o’donnell from ci— wait, wait! who? iran guesthouse operation is ready now, if we don’t have the president’s go ahead, they are going to be captured. david, pick up! zurich, it’s under harkins. i’m sorry sir, i don’t see you’d have these reservations. telex for flash! would you mind checking again, please? copy d.s., confirm the tickets, go! my apologies, they just came through. swisair says they picked up the tickets. get the l.a. office, tell them to be ready, in case they call. we told them to shut that down. there you go. not here. when did you come through iran? two days ago. what was the purpose of your visit? we are looking for locations for a film. — we have a…. — oh, yeah, i’ve got a letter from the ministry of culture. if you want to look at that. you can go. come on, come on. passports. no passports, no plane. passports. passports. [farsi] we’re together yes, uh— pierson’s telling swissair they’re not on the plane. they should have boarded already. still no answer in l.a. sir. [farsi] yeah uh, it’s a fantasy story about a war in another world. here you can see our notices. see? argo is filmed in iran. of course i speak farsi, i wish to make a movie in iran. n—no, i’m… i’m now a writer, and uh… kevin, give me the storyboards. these are the drawings that show what we will film for the movie, alien villains have taken over the hero’s planet. they fight for their families and take back the city, the villains know he is the chosen one, so, they kidnap his son in the spice market. so he and his wife storm the castle. the people—hold that… the people are inspired to join him. they are farmers, but they learn to fight. they shoot weapons at their enemies. and the king of the aliens is destroyed, when the people find their courage. you don’t go until we verify. — i understand. — sir… call our office. they’ll verify. .. it goes all the way throughout the thirties. hold on pal, we’re shooting. we’re just going to the producer’s building. yeah i understand, i understand but we’re shooting. swissair announces final boarding to flight 3‒6‒3 to zurich. recess, back to one! — alright, recess. — we going again! again, everyone! and… we’re rolling! — we’re going to the producer’s building. — sorry, we’re rolling sorry pal, we’re gonna be in the movie. call my agency. sir! studio 6 productions. may i speak to a mr. kevin harkins? i’m sorry, mr. harkins is out of country on a location scout. may i take a message? doors are closing for flight 3‒6‒3 to zurich. — we can go. — excellent. you can these. it’s a gift. [farsi] wait a moment. others are coming. swissair 3‒6‒3, clearance for taxi. swissair 3‒6‒3, you are number two for departure. swissair 3‒6‒3, you are cleared for take off. swissair 3‒6‒3, clear for take off. — we got wheels up! — wait. ladies and gentlemen, it is our pleasure to announce that alcoholic beverages are now available as we have cleared iranian airspace. they’re clear. yes! yes! they’re out! they’re out. they’re out! yes! we got them out! they’re out! great work, boys. we’ve managed! you are admitted to the republic of iraq. we made history today. “ history starts out as farce and ends up as tragedy‟. or it’s the other way around. and who said it? marx. groucho said that? called ‘the times’ to nail it to the goddamn door. cia are the good guys. the canadians are the good guys and if we’re not agreeing, them too. only. canada takes the credit, or they’ll retaliate against the hostages. great satan wasn’t involved. no cia. is that right, jack? involved in what? we were surprised as anybody. thank you, canada. we knew that each day that they stayed there, the danger was becoming greater. we had been looking for a solution to have them to leave the country during the past— .. day 87, and finally a sliver of really good news… .. american department of state hereby honors joe stafford… kathy stafford… mark lijek… the americans will be forever grateful to our great and ally to the north, for the protection and safe passage, provided to our diplomats. bob anders… here or anywhere in the world… canada will pay… for this violation of the sovereignty of iran. .. ambassador ken taylor and the great nation of canada. so i’m sitting in jerry’s this morning, i’m having breakfast. waitress comes over to me, she’s waving a newspaper, she says: “you see what those canadians pulled off? why can’t we do something like that?‟ i said to her, do you know what i said? no, what? “argo, fuck yourself!‟ all set. thanks a lot. and i left my autograph book at home. his eminence called me. he wants to see you. probably wants to fire me himself. he wants to give you the intelligence star. you’re getting the highest award of merit of the clandestine services of these united states. ceremony’s on the fourteenth. if they push it a week i can bring ian, that’s his winter break. the op was classified. so… the ceremony’s classified. he can’t know about it, nobody can know about it. so they’re just gonna give me an award, then they’re gonna take it back. that’s right. if we wanted applause we would would have joined the circus. — i thought we did. — yeah. carter said you were a great american. great american what? he didn’t say. what happened to your picture? it’s in turn around. can i come in? the iran hostage crisis ended on january 20, 1981, when all remaining hostages were released. they spent 444 days in captivity. the involvement of the c.i.a. complemented efforts of the canadian embassy in freeing the six held in tehran. to this day, this story stands as an enduring model for international cooperation between governments. all of the houseguests returned to u.s. foreign service after their ordeal in iran. oscar winning make-up artist john chambers was awarded the c.i.a.’s intelligence medal, its highest civilian honor. he and mendez remained friends until chamber’s death in 2001. tony mendez’s intelligence star was returned to him in 1997, when operation argo was declassified by president clinton. he lives in rural maryland with his family. transcript and sync: jcdr v 1.0 — 11.01.2013