les miserables transcript and sync: jcdr look down, look down don’t look them in the eye look down, look down you’re here until you die. no god above and hell alone below look down, look down there’s twenty years to go. i’ve done no wrong sweet jesus, hear my prayer! look down, look down sweet jesus doesn’t care. i know she’ll wait i know that she’ll be true- look down, look down they’ve all forgotten you. when i get free you won’t see me here for dust! look down, look down you’ll always be a slave. look down, look down you’re standing in your grave. retrieve the flag. now prisoner 24601 your time is up and your parole’s begun. you know what that means? yes. it means i’m free. no. for long to the left of your itinerary, this badge of shame you’ll show it until you die. it warns you’re a dangerous man. i stole a loaf of bread my sister’s child was close to death – we were starving. – you will starve again unless you learn the meaning of the law. i know the meaning of those nineteen years a slave of the law! five years for what you did, the rest because you tried to run. yes, 24601! my name is jean valjean! and i’m javert! do not forget my name. do not forget me- look down, look down you’ll always be a slave. look down, look down you’re standing in your grave. freedom at last- how strange the taste! never forget the years- the waste, nor forgive them for what they’ve done. they are the guilty- everyone! the day begins and now lets see what this new world will do for me! – can i help? – a day’s work? papers? no work here. valjean, as a dangerous man, you will be on parole forever, failure to report means immediate arrest. be in pontalliers in thirty days. follow him. let me see your papers. you show him the papers. i'll sleep in the stable, please. no way, get out. come in, sir, for you are weary and the night is cold out here. though our lives are very humble what we have we have to share. there is wine here to revive you. there is bread to make you strong. there’s a bed to rest till morning- rest from pain, and rest from wrong. bless the food we eat today. bless our dear sister and our honoured guest. get in there. put it down. stay there. monsignor… we have your silver, we caught the man red-handed! he has the nerve to say you gave him all this! that is right. but my friend, you left so early, surely something slipped your mind you forgot i gave these also. would you leave the best behind? messieurs, release him. this man has spoken true. i commend you for your duty now god’s blessing go with you. but remember this, my brother- see in this some higher plan. you must use this precious silver to become an honest man. by the witness of the martyrs, by the passion and the blood, god has raised you out of darkness- i have saved your soul for god. what have i done, sweet jesus, what have i done? become a thief in the night become a dog on the run! have i fallen so far and is the hour so late that nothing remains but the cry of my hate? the cries in the dark that nobody hears here where i stand at the turning of the years. if there’s another way to go i missed it twenty long years ago. my life was a war that could never be won. they gave me a number and murdered valjean when they chained me and left me for dead just for stealing a mouthful of bread! yet why did i allow this man to touch my soul and teach me love? he treated me like any other he gave me his trust he called me brother. my life he claims for god above… can such things be? for i had come to hate the world- this world that always hated me! take an eye for an eye! turn your heart into stone! this is all i have lived for! this is all i have known! one word from him and i'll be back beneath the lash upon the rack instead he offers me my freedom i feel my shame inside me like a knife. he told me that i have a soul… how does he know? what spirit comes to move my life? is there another way to go? i am reaching, but i fall and the night is closing in… as i stare into the void- to the whirlpool of my sin. i’ll escape now from that world- from the world of jean valjean. jean valjean is nothing now! another story must begin! at the end of the day you’re another day older and that’s all you can say for the life of the poor. it’s a struggle! it’s a war! and there’s nothing that anyone’s giving. one more day standing about- what is it for? one day less to be living. at the end of the day you’re another day colder and the shirt on your back doesn’t keep out the chill. and the righteous hurry past they don’t hear the little ones crying and the plague is coming on fast ready to kill- one day nearer to dying! at the end of the day there’s another day dawning and the sun in the morning is waiting to rise like the waves crash on the sand like a storm that’ll break any second there’s a hunger in the land and there’s gonna be hell to pay at the end of the day! at the end of the day you get nothing for nothing! sitting flat on your bum doesn’t buy any bread! there are children back at home- and the children have got to be fed. and you’re lucky to be in a job- and in a bed! and we’re counting our blessings! have you seen how the foreman is fuming today with his terrible breath and his wandering hands? it’s because little fantine won’t give him his way. take a look at his trousers, you’ll see where he stands! and the boss, he never knows that the foreman is always on heat. if fantine doesn’t look out, watch how she goes, she’ll be out on the street! at the end of the day its another day over with enough in your pocket to last for a week pay the landlord, pay the shop keep on working as long as you’re able keep on working till you drop or it’s back to the crumbs off the table well, you’ve got to pay your way at the end of the day! and what have we here, little innocent sister? oh come on, fantine, let’s have all the news. "dear fantine, you must send us more money, your child needs a doctor, there’s no time to lose". give that letter to me it is none of your business. with a husband at home and a bit on the side! is there anyone here who can swear before god she has nothing to fear? she has nothing to hide? hey! come on, stop that. mr. madeleine's here. what is this fighting all about? will someone tear these two apart? this is a factory, not a circus. now come on, ladies, settle down. i am the mayor of this town i run a business of repute. deal with this, foreman. be as patient as you can. yes, monsieur madeleine. now… someone say how this began! at the end of the day she’s the one who began it! there’s a kid that she’s hiding in some little town. there’s a man she has to pay you can guess how she picks up the extra- you can bet she’s earning her keep sleeping around! and the boss wouldn’t like it. yes, it’s true there’s a child and the child is my daughter and her father abandoned us, leaving us flat. now she lives with an innkeeper man and his wife and i pay for the child. what’s the matter with that? at the end of the day she’ll be nothing but trouble and there’s trouble for all when there’s trouble for one! while we’re earning our daily bread she’s the one with her hands in the butter- you must send the slut away or we’re all going to end in the gutter and it’s us who’ll have to pay at the end of the day! i might have known the bitch could bite! i might have known the cat had claws! i might have guessed your little secret! ah yes, the virtuous fantine, who keeps herself so pure and clean- you’d be the cause, i had no doubt of any trouble hereabout. you play a virgin in the light but need no urging in the night! she’s been laughing at you while she’s having her men! she’ll be nothing but trouble again and again! – you must sack her today! – sack the girl today! right, my girl. on your way. monsieur le maire. monsieur le maire! monsieur le maire! monsieur le maire! monsieur! please! welcome, inspector. monsieur le maire. please know me as javert. i’m here at your command with honour due to each. and justice in our hands no man’s beyond our reach. let all beware. welcome, sir come guard our laws i’m sure we’re here in common cause. you’ve done the city proud, you’re praised by those on high. your success is her defaults, the best that parents can supply. your people thrive. the dignity of toil to stay alive. it seems to me we may have met. your face is not a face i would forget. – monsieur madeleine! – pardon. monsieur le maire! monsieur le maire! the weight. – it's crushing him! – stay still, stay still. come on! hold, hold, hold! hold that still. hold that still! let him… that's it. can this be true? i don’t believe what i see! a man your age to be as strong as you are! a memory stirs… you make me think of a man from years ago a man who broke his parole… he disappeared. say what you must, don’t leave it there. forgive me sir, i would not dare. excuse me. bonsoir. how much for this? it's made of this. – i'll give you four francs for that. – four, it's worth ten! – too… i smell women, smell’em in the air! think i’ll drop me anchor in that harbour over there! lovely ladies! i love ‘em till i'm broke! seven months at sea and now i'm hungry for a poke! even stokers need a little stoke! lovely ladies waiting for a bite! waiting for the customers who only come at night. lovely ladies ready for the call, standing up or lying down or any way at all bargain prices up against the wall! what pretty hair! what pretty locks you’ve got there! what luck you got. it’s worth a centime, my dear! i’ll take the lot! don’t touch me! leave me alone! let’s make a price. i’ll give you all of ten francs. just think of that! it pays a debt… just think of that. what can i do? it pays a debt. ten francs may save my poor cosette. lovely ladies waiting in the dark. ready for a thick one or a quick one in the park. long time, short time any time my dear! cost a little extra if you want to take all year quick and cheap is underneath the pier! go and see them. come over here, it's twenty francs for a tooth. come here my dear. i’ll pay well for your youth. the pain won’t last, you’ll still be able to bite. i do it fast, i know my business all right. it’s worth a go. you’ll pay me first what i am due. you’ll get twice if i take two! gimme the dirt- who’s that bit over there? a bit of skirt, she’s the one sold her hair. she’s got a kid, sends her all that she can. i might’ve known there is always some man. lovely lady, come along and join us! lovely lady! come on, dearie, why all the fuss? you’re no grander than the rest of us. life has dropped you at the bottom of the heap. join your sisters – make money in your sleep! that’s right, dearie, show him what you’ve got! that’s right, dearie, let him have the lot! old men, young men, take’em as they come! harbour rats and alley cats and every kind of scum! poor men, rich men, leaders of the land- see them with their trousers off, they’re never quite as grand! all it takes is money in your hand! lovely ladies going for a song, got a lot of callers but they never stay for long… come on, captain… you can wear your shoes. don’t it make a change to have a girl who can’t refuse? easy money lying on a bed. just as well they never see the hate that’s in your head! don’t they know they’re making love to one already dead? there was a time when men were kind, when their voices were soft and their words inviting. there was a time when love was blind and the world was a song and the song was exciting. there was a time… then it all went wrong. i dreamed a dream in time gone by, when hope was high and life worth living. i dreamed that love would never die. i dreamed that god would be forgiving. then i was young and unafraid and dreams were made and used and wasted. there was no ransom to be paid, no song unsung, no wine untasted. but the tigers come at night with their voices soft as thunder as they tear your hope apart as they turn your dream to shame. he slept a summer by my side, he filled my days with endless wonder. he took my childhood in his stride but he was gone when autumn came. and still i dream he’ll come to me! that we will live the years together… but there are dreams that cannot be and there are storms we cannot weather… i had a dream my life would be so different from this hell i’m living- so different now from what it seemed! now… life… has killed… the dream… i dreamed. what d'ya have for me? it's our youngest, sir. i don’t want you! you’ve got some nerve, you little slut! you’ve got some gall! by christ you’ll pay for what you’ve done! i guarantee i’ll make you suffer! i beg you, don’t report me, sir. i’ll do whatever you may want. make your excuse to the police! tell me quickly what’s the story. who saw what and why and where? let him give a full description, let him answer to javert! javert, would you believe it? i was lost here in the dark, when this prostitute attacked me you can see she’s left her mark! she will answer for her actions if you make a full report. you may rest assured, monsieur, she will answer to the court. there’s a child who sorely needs me, please, monsieur, she’s but that high. holy god, is there no mercy? if i go to jail she’ll die. i have heard such protestations every day for twenty years. let’s have no more explanations, save your breath and save your tears. honest works, just reward, that's the way to please the law. a moment of your time, javert. i do believe this woman’s tale. monsieur le mayor! you’ve done your duty. let her be. she needs a doctor, not a jail. monsieur le mayor! can this be? where will she end- this child without a friend? i’ve seen your face before. show me some way to help you. how have you come to grief in such a place as this? monsieur, don’t mock me now, i pray it’s hard enough i’ve lost my pride. you let your foreman send me away. yes, you were there and turned aside. i never did no wrong. is it true what i’ve done- my daughter’s close to dying. to an innocent soul? if there’s a god above- had i only known then! he’d let me die instead. in his name my task has just begun. i will take her to the hospital. monsieur le mayor! where is your child? with an innkeeper in montfermeil… i will send for her immediately. i will see it done! from paris, monsieur. monsieur le mayor i have a crime to declare! i have disgraced the uniform that i wear. i’ve done you wrong, let no forgiveness be shown. i’ve been as hard on every rogue i have known. i mistook you for a convict, i have made a false report. now i learn they’ve caught the culprit- he’s about to face the court. and of course the thief denies it, you’d expect that from a con. but he couldn’t run for ever, no, not even jean valjean. you say this man denies it all, and gives no sign of understanding or repentance? you say this man is going to trial, and that he’s sure to be returned to serve his sentence? he will pay, and so must i. press charges against me, sir! you have only done your duty it’s a minor sin at most. all of us have made misjudgements you’ll return, sir, to your post. they think that man is me- without a second glance. this stranger they have found- this man could be my chance! why should i save his hide? why should i right this wrong? when i have come so far and struggled for so long? if i speak… i am condemned. if i stay silent… i am damned! i am the master of hundreds of workers- they all look to me. can i abandon them? how would they live if i am not free? if i speak they are condemned. if i stay silent… i am damned! who am i? can i condemn this man to slavery? pretend i do not feel his agony? this innocent who bears my face, who goes to judgement in my place… who am i? can i conceal myself for ever more? pretend i’m not the man i was before? and must my name until i die be no more than an alibi? must i lie? ηоw саn ι еvеr fасе my fеllоw mеn? how can i ever face myself again? my soul belongs to god, i know, i made that bargain long ago. he gave me hope when hope was gone! he gave me strength to journey on! who am i? who am i? i’m jean valjean! monsieur le mayor! and so, your honour, you see it’s true that man bears no more guilt than you! who am i? monsieur le mayor, you are not well, you must come with me. you'll believe me, ask inspector javert. he will find me at the hospital. cosette, it’s turned so cold! cosette, it’s past your bedtime! you’ve played the day away and soon it will be night. come to me… cosette, the light is fading, don't you see… the evening star appearing? come to me… and rest against my shoulder, how fast the minutes fly away and every minute colder? dear fantine, cosette will be here soon! dear fantine… she will be by your side come cosette… my child, where did you go? be at peace! be at peace ever more. my cosette- shall live in my protection. take her now! your child will want for nothing. good monsieur… you come from god in heaven. tell cosette… i love her… and i see her… when i wake. valjean, at last we see each other plain! "monsieur le mayor" you’ll wear a different chain! before you say another word, javert, before you chain me up like a slave again, listen to me! there is something i must do. this woman leaves behind a suffering child. there is none but me who can intercede- in mercy’s name, three days are all i need, then i’ll return, i pledge my word! – then i’ll return… – you must think me mad! i’ve hunted you across the years. men like you can never change- a man such as you! – believe of me what you will – men like you can never change. – there is a duty that i’m sworn to do. – men like me can never change. – you know nothing of my life- – no, 24601! – all i did was steal some bread. – my duty is to the law. – you know nothing of the world- – you have no rights. – you would sooner see me dead. – come with me, 24601! – but not before i see this justice done! – now the wheel has turned around- – but not before i see this justice done! jean valjean is nothing now. – i am warning you, javert, – dare you talk to me of crime – i’m a stronger man by far! – and the price you had to pay. – there is power in me yet! – every man is born in sin – my race is not yet run! – every man must choose his way. you know nothing of javert! i was born inside a jail. i was born with scum like you. i am from the gutter too. there is a castle on a cloud i like to go there in my sleep. aren’t any floors for me to sweep, not in my castle on a cloud. there is a lady all in white holds me and sings a lullaby. she’s nice to see and she’s soft to touch she says, cosette, i love you very much. i know a place where no one’s lost i know a place where no one cries. crying at all is not allowed, not in my castle on a cloud. now look who’s here! the little madam herself, pretending once again she’s been so awfully good! better not let me catch you slacking! better not catch my eye! ten rotten francs your mother sends me- what is that going to buy? now take that pail, my little mademoiselle, and go and draw some water from the well. we should never have taken you in in the first place- how stupid the things that we do! like mother, like daughter, the scum of the street. mama! eponine, come my dear. eponine, let me see you. you look very well in that little blue hat! there’s some little girls who know how to behave and they know what to wear and i’m saying thank heaven for that! still there, cosette? your tears will do you no good! i told you to fetch some water from the well in the wood. please do not send me out alone. not in the darkness on my own. enough of that, or i’ll forget to be nice! you heard me ask for something, and i never ask twice! waky waky. we're opening. i love you. i love you so much. my band of soaks, my den of dissolutes, my dirty jokes, my always pissed as newts, my sons of whores… no no no no no, no tonight… spend their lives in my inn! waky waky. homing pigeons homing in- they fly through my doors, and they crawl out on all fours. – daddy, here! – thank you darling. welcome, monsieur! sit yourself down and meet the best innkeeper in town! as for the rest- all of them crooks rooking the guests and cooking the books. seldom do you see honest men like me a gent of good intent who’s content to be- master of the house! doling out the charm ready with a handshake and an open palm tells a saucy tale makes a little stir customers appreciate a bon-viveur glad to do a friend a favour doesn’t cost me to be nice but nothing gets you nothing everything has got a little price! master of the house! keeper of the zoo! ready to relieve’em of a sou or two- watering the wine making up the weight picking up their knick-knacks when they can’t see straight everybody loves a landlord everybody’s bosom friend! i do whatever pleases – jesus! won’t i bleed’em in the end! master of the house! quick to catch your eye never wants a passer-by to pass him by! servant to the poor butler to the great comforter, philosopher and lifelong mate everybody’s boon companion everybody’s chaperone- but lock up your valises- jesus! won’t i skin you to the bone! food beyond compare food beyond belief mix it in a mincer and pretend it’s beef kidney of a horse liver of a cat filling up the sausages with this and that! residents are more than welcome bridal suite is occupied reasonable charges plus some little extras on the side. yes! oh, santa! charge’em for the lice extra for the mice two percent for looking in the mirror twice. here a little slice there a little cut three percent for sleeping with the window shut. when it comes to fixing prices there are lots of tricks he knows how it all increases all those bits and pieces- jesus! it’s amazing how it grows. oh, sorry love! who's got something done about that? i used to dream that i would meet a prince but god almighty have you seen what’s happened since? no? what? ‘master of the house’ isn’t worth my spit! comforter, philosopher and lifelong shit! cunning little brain regular voltaire thinks he’s quite a lover but there’s not much there. what a cruel trick of nature landed me with such a louse. god knows how i’ve lasted living with this bastard in the house! – master of the house! – master and a half! – comforter, philosopher – don’t make me laugh! servant to the poor butler to the great- hypocrite and toady and inebriate! everybody bless the landlord! everybody bless his spouse! everybody raise a glass! raise it up the master’s arse! everybody raise a glass to the master of the house! everybody bless the landlord… hush now, do not be afraid of me. don’t cry. show me where you live. tell me, my child, what is your name? i’m called cosette. cosette? can i help you with your bucket? i found her wandering in the wood this little child, i found her trembling in the shadows. and i am here to help cosette, and i will settle any debt you may think proper. i will pay what i must pay to take cosette away. i love you. this is a duty i must heed. there is a promise i have made. for i was blind to one in need, i did not see what stood before me. now your mother is with god. her suffering is over, and i speak here with her voice, and i stand here in her place, and from this day, and ever more- let me take your coat, monsieur! cosette shall live in my protection. you are very welcome here! i will not forget my vow. – take a drink! – take a chair! cosette shall have a father now. what to do? what to say shall you carry our treasure away? what a gem! what a pearl! beyond rubies is our little girl! how can we talk of debt? let’s not haggle for darling colette! – cosette. – cosette. dear fantine- gone to rest- have we done for her child what is best? i think so. shared our bread- shared each bone- treated her like she’s one of our own! – yes our own. – like our own, monsieur! go sir, your turn. your feelings do you credit, sir. and i will ease the parting blow. let us not talk of bargains and bones and greed. now may i sa we are… agreed? that would quite fit the bill if she hadn’t so often been ill. little dear, cost us dear! medicines are expensive, monsieur. not that we begrudged a sou- it’s no more than we christians must do. no more words! here’s your price! fifteen hundred for your sacrifice. come, cosette, say goodbye. let’s seek out some friendlier skies. thank you both for cosette- it won’t take you too long to forget. farewell, courgette! it's cosette. and hop! it's for you! where i go, you will be. well, will you be like a papa to me? yes, cosette! this is true! i’ll be father and mother to you! – not bad! – not enough! there’s a copper at the door! what the devil have you done? where’s the child cosette? she’s gone with a gent, didn’t tell us where they went, didn’t leave his home address. you’re a bloody fool look at what we got. should have struck the iron, struck it while it’s hot. next time round i promise i'm gonna get the lot. okay? suddenly you're here suddenly it starts and two anxious hearts beat as one. yesterday i was alone today you walk beside me something still unclear something not yet here has begun. suddenly the world seems a different place somehow full of grace and of light. how was i to know that so much hope was held inside me? what is past is gone now we join on through the night. how was i to know at last that happiness can come so fast? trusting me the way you do i’m so afraid of failing you just a child who cannot know that danger follows where i go there are shadows everywhere and memories i cannot share nevermore alone nevermore apart you have warmed my heart like the sun. you have brought the gift of life and love so long denied me. suddenly i see what i could not see something suddenly has begun. le me see your papers. where you travelling? cosette. cosette, shh, shh! here, give me the doll. come! valjean! like that. run! quick! cosette. i've got you, come on. valjean! te lucis ante terminum rerum creator poscimus ut pro tua clementia sis praesul et custodia… who’s that? please, monsieur! i need your help. please. please. – monsieur le mayor!? – who are you? fauchelevent. i fell under my cart. – you saved my life, monsieur. – fauchelevent… we need a place of sanctuary. this child and i, we need… we need to disappear. we’ll give thanks for what is granted what the sisters may ordain here we pray for new beginnings- here our lives can start again. there, out in the darkness a fugitive running fallen from god fallen from grace- god be my witness i never shall yield till we come face to face- till we come face to face… he knows his way in the dark mine is the way of the lord those who follow the path of the righteous shall have their reward and if they fall as lucifer fell- the flame! the sword! stars in your multitudes! scarce to be counted filling the darkness with order and light- you are the sentinels silent and sure keeping watch in the night- keeping watch in the night… you know your place in the sky you hold your course and your aim and each in your season returns and returns and is always the same and if you fall as lucifer fell you fall in flame! and so it must be, for so it is written on the doorway to paradise that those who falter and those who fall must pay the price! lord, let me find him that i may see him safe behind bars! i will never rest till then, this i swear come on, boys! come on! look down and see the beggars at your feet! look down and show some mercy if you can! look down and see the sweepings of the street! look down, look down, upon your fellow man! ‘ow do you do? my name’s gavroche! these are my people, here’s my patch. not much to look at– nothing posh! nothing that you’d call up to scratch. this is my school, my high society! here in the slums of st michel. we live on crumbs of humble piety tough on the teeth- but what the hell! think you’re poor? think you’re free? follow me! follow me! look down and show some mercy if you can! look down, look down, upon your fellow man! there was a time we killed the king we tried to change the world too fast. now we have got another king, he is no better than the last. this is the land that fought for liberty- now when we fight we fight for bread! here is the thing about equality- everyone’s equal when they’re dead. take your place! take your chance! vive la france! vive la france! look down and show some mercy if you can! look down, look down, upon your fellow man! – when’s it gonna end? – when we gonna live? – something’s gotta happen now! – something’s gotta give! it’ll come, it’ll come, it’ll come where are the leaders of the land? where is the king who runs this show? only one man, general lamarque speaks for the people here below! lamarque is ill and fading fast- won’t last a week out, so they say. with all the anger in the land, how long before the judgement day? before we cut the fat ones down to size? – death to the king! – liberty for all! before the barricades arise? courfeyrac, come tomorrow, we meet here and build the barricades. bring your gun. vive general lamarque! vive general lamarque! – marius! – grand father. have you any idea of the shame you bring on your family! it's a disgrace! vive general lamarque! vive general lamarque! vive la france! vive la france! vive la france!vive la france! hey there monsieur what’s new with you? haven’t seen much of you of late. you still pretending to be poor come on, i know your grandpa’s rich won’t take a franc that i’ve not earned all of those bridges have been burned. i like the way you talk monsieur! i like the way you always tease. little he knows- little he sees. eponine! everyone here, you know your place- brujon, babet, clacquesous you, montparnasse, watch for the law- with eponine- take care. you turn on the tears! no mistakes, my dear! please, m’sieur, come this way. here’s a child that ain’t eaten today. save a life, spare a sou! god rewards all the good that you do. wait a bit… know that face! ain’t the world a remarkable place! men like me don’t forget- you’re the bastard who borrowed colette! – cosette. – whatever. what is this? are you mad? no, monsieur, you don’t know what you say! you know me! i know you! and you’ll pay what i’m due. and you better dig deep! cause she doesn't come cheap! it’s the police! disappear! run for it! it’s javert! cosette! go, go! another brawl in the square! another stink in the air! was there a witness to this? well, let him speak to javert! monsieur, these streets are not safe. but let these vermin beware, we’ll see that justice is done! look upon this fine collection crawled from underneath a stone. this swarm of worms and maggots could have picked you to the bone! i know this man over here, i know his name and his trade. and on your witness, monsieur, i’ll see him suitably paid. but where’s the gentlemen gone? and why on earth would he run? you will have a job to find him! he’s not all he seems to be- and that girl he trails behind him she’s the child he stole from me! – yeah, and me. – yeah both of us. could it be he’s that old jailbird that the tide now washes in? heard my name and started running… all the omens point to him. in the absence of a victim, dear inspector, may i go? and remember when you’ve nicked him it was me what told you so. let the old man keep on running i will run him off his feet! everyone about your business! clear this garbage off the street! cosette! now i remember… cosette! how can it be? we were children together. look what’s become of me. eponine! who was that girl? that bourgeois two-a-penny thing! eponine, find her for me! – what will you give me? – anything! got you all excited now, but god knows what you see in her. aren’t you all delighted now? no… no, i don’t want your money, sir. eponine, do this for me, discover where she lives. but careful how you go- don’t let your father know. eponine! i’m lost until she’s found. you see? i told you so! there’s lots of things i know! eponine… ѕhе knоwѕ hеr wаy аrоund. the time is near… so near it’s stirring the blood in their veins. and yet beware! don’t let the wine go to your brains. we need a sign to rally the people to call them to arms to bring them in line! marius, wake up! what’s wrong today? you look as if you’ve seen a ghost. some wine, and say what’s going on! a ghost, you say? a ghost maybe! she was like a ghost to me- one minute there- then she was gone! i am agog! i am aghast! is marius in love at last? i’ve never heard him ooh and aah. you talk of battles to be won and here he comes like don juan! it is better than an opera! it is time for us all to decide who we are. do we fight for the right to a night at the opera now? have you asked of yourselves what’s the price you might pay? is this simply a game for a rich young boy to play? the colours of the world are changing day by day- red- the blood of angry men! black- the dark of ages past! red- a world about to dawn! black- the night that ends at last! had you seen her today you might know how it feels to be struck to the bone by a moment of breathless delight! had you been there today you might also have known how the world may be changed in just one burst of light and what was right seems wrong and what was wrong seems right! – red! – i feel my soul on fire! – black! – my world if she’s not there! – red! – the colour of desire! – black! – the colour of despair! marius, you’re no longer a child- i do not doubt you mean it well but now there is a higher call! who cares about your lonely soul? we strive towards a larger goal- our little lives don’t count at all! – red! – the blood of angry men! – black! – the dark of ages past! – red- – a world about to dawn! black- the night that ends at last! listen, everybody! general lamarque is dead! lamarque… his death is the hour of fate. the people’s man… his death is the sign we await! on his funeral day they will honour his name with the light of rebellion ablaze in their eyes. from their candles of grief we will kindle our flame. on the tomb of lamarque shall our barricades rise! the time is here! let us welcome it gladly with courage and cheer! let us take to the street with no doubt in our hearts – but a jubilant shout! – they will come one and all! they will come when we call! did you find her? how strange- this feeling that my life’s begun at last! this change- can people really fall in love so fast? what’s the matter with you, cosette? have you been too much on your own? so many things unclear- so many things unknown… in my life there are so many questions and answers that somehow seem wrong. in my life there are times when i catch in the silence the sigh of a faraway song and it sings of a world that i long to see- out of reach just a whisper away waiting for me! does he know i’m alive? do i know if he’s real? does he see what i see? does he feel what i feel? in my life i’m no longer alone now the love in my life is so near… find me now! find me here! dear cosette, you’re such a lonely child. how pensive, how sad you seem to me. believe me, were it within my power i’d fill each passing hour. how quiet it must be, i can see, with only me for company. there’s so little i know that i’m longing to know of the man that you were in a time long ago… there’s so little you say of the life you have known, why you keep to yourself, why we’re always alone. so dark! so dark and deep, the secrets that you keep! in my life please forgive what i say you are loving and gentle and good. but papa, dear papa, in your eyes i am still like that child who was lost in a wood. no more words- no more words. it’s a time that is dead. there are words that are better unheard, better unsaid. in my life i’m no longer a child and i yearn for the truth that you know of the years… years ago! you will learn. truth is given by god to us all in our time, in our turn. in my life she has burst like the music of angels the light of the sun! and my life seems to stop as if something is over and something has scarcely begun! eponine, you’re the friend who has brought me here. thanks to you i am one with the gods and heaven is near! and i soar through a world that is new, that is free! every word that he says is a dagger in me! in my life there’s been no one like him anywhere, anywhere, where he is if he asked… i’d be his! in my life there is someone who touches my life- waiting near! waiting here! a heart full of love! a heart full of song! i’m doing everything all wrong- oh god, for shame- i do not even know your name. dear mad’moiselle, won’t you say? will you tell? a heart full of love! no fear, no regret! my name is marius pontmercy. and mine’s cosette. cosette… i don’t know what to say- then make no sound. i am lost- i am found! i am found! – a heart full of light- – a heart full of light- – he was never mine to lose – a heart full of light- – he was never mine to lose – a heart full of you- – a heart full of you- – a heart full of you- – why regret what could not be? – a heart full of you- – why regret what could not be? – a single look and then i knew! i knew it too! these are words he’ll never say not to me, – from today- not to me, not… – .. for me. – every day… – his heart full of love… – for it isn’t a dream- – not a dream after all! – he will never feel this way. cosette? cosette, what are you doing? i want you to stay inside. who is this hussy? it’s your brat eponine! don’t you know your own kid? why’s she hanging about here? eponine, get on home! you’re not needed in this. we’re enough here without you. i know this house, i tell you! there’s nothing here for you! just the old man and the girl. they live ordinary lives. don’t interfere! you’ve got some gall! take care, young miss, you’ve got a lot to say! i’m gonna scream! i’m gonna warn them here! one little scream and you’ll regret it for a year! my god, cosette! you wait, my girl! you’ll rue this night! i’ll make you scream! you’ll scream all right! police! must be javert. he’s found my cover at last. i’ve got to get cosette away we'll go to the rear o'a pub in the "rue de l'homme armé', it safe there. then i'll arrange our passage to england. no! hurry, cosette! prepare to leave, and say no more. tonight we’ll away! – no! please no! we can’t go! – hurry, cosette! it’s time to close another door and live another day! get dressed, we're leaving. – please, no- – now! on my own pretending he’s beside me all alone i walk with him till morning without him i feel his arms around me and when i lose my way i close my eyes and he has found me. in the rain the pavement shines like silver all the lights are misty in the river in the darkness the trees are full of starlight and all i see is him and me forever and forever! and i know it’s only in my mind- that i’m talking to myself and not to him. and although i know that he is blind, still i say there’s a way for us. i love him but when the night is over he is gone- the river’s just a river. without him the world around me changes- the trees are bare and everywhere the streets are full of strangers. i love him but every day i’m learning all my life i’ve only been pretending. without me, his world will go on turning a world that’s full of happiness that i have never known. i love him i love him i love him but only on my own. one day more! another day, another destiny. this never-ending road to calvary. these men who seem to know my crime will surely come a second time- – one day more! – i did not live until today- how can i live when we are parted? – one day more! – tomorrow you’ll be worlds away and yet with you my world has started! one more day all on my own… will we ever meet again? one more day with him not caring… i was born to be with you! what a life i might have known… and i swear i will be true! but he never saw me there. one more day before the storm! do i follow where she goes? at the barricades of freedom! shall i join my brothers there? when our ranks begin to form- do i stay and do i dare? will you take your place with me? the time is now! the day is here! one day more! one day more to revolution. we will nip it in the bud. we’ll be ready for these schoolboys. they will wet themselves with blood! they will wet themselves with blood! – one day more! watch’em run amuck! catch’em as they fall! never know your luck when there’s a free-for-all. here a little dip, there a little touch- most of them are goners so they won’t miss much! one day to a new beginning! raise the flag of freedom high! every man will be a king! every man will be a king! there’s a new world for the winning! there’s a new world to be won! do you hear the people sing? my place is here! i fight with you! one day more! – we will join these people’s heroes – i did not live until today – we will follow where they go. – one more day on my own… we will learn their little secrets, – how can i live when we are parted? we will know the things they know. we will know the things they know. – one day more! one more day to revolution – one day more! we will nip it in the bud – one more day on my own… we’ll be ready for these schoolboys- we’ll be ready for these schoolboys- – tomorrow we’ll be far away. tomorrow is the judgement day. tomorrow we’ll discover what our god in heaven has in store- one more dawn! one more day! one day more! do you hear the people sing singing the song of angry men? it is the music of a people who will not be slaves again! when the beating of your heart echoes the beating of the drums there is a life about to start when tomorrow comes! will you join in our crusade? who will be strong and stand with me? beyond the barricade is there a world you long to see? then join in the fight that will give you the right to be free! do you hear the people sing singing the song of angry men? it is the music of a people who will not be slaves again! when the beating of your heart echoes the beating of the drums there is a life about to start when tomorrow comes! will you give all you can give so that our banner may advance? some will fall and some will live will you stand up and take your chance? the blood of the martyrs will water the meadows of france! do you hear the people sing singing the song of angry men? it is the music of a people who will not be slaves again! when the beating of your heart echoes the beating of the drums there is a life about to start when tomorrow comes! draw! no more, no! no! – shoot on anything but women! – murderer! watch it to the right! sir! thank you sir! than you monsieur! – to the barricades! – vive la france! we build the barricades! – come on! get down! get down! grantaire, get off your ass, it's begun! barricades! sorry m'dame, thank you. we need as much furniture as you can draw down! draw everything you have! wait! below! what is that, what is that?! no! thank you madame! i need a volunteer! someone who can find out their plan, and when they will attack! i can find out the truth! i know their ways, fought their wars, served my time in the days of my youth. see! the people unite! i pray your right dogs will bark! fleas will bite! they will do what is right. red, the blood of angry men! black, the dark of ages past! red, a world about to dawn! black, the night that ends at last! he's back! listen, my friends, i have done as i said. i have been to their lines, i have counted each man. i will tell what i can. better be warned they have armies to spare and our danger is real- we will need all our cunning to bring them to heel. have faith! if you know what their movements are we’ll spoil their game. there are ways that a people can fight- we shall overcome their power! i have overheard their plans. there will be no attack tonight. they intend to starve you out before they start a proper fight- concentrate their force, hit us when it’s light- liar! good evening, dear inspector. lovely evening, my dear! i know this man, my friends. his name’s inspector javert! so don’t believe a word he says cause none of it’s true. this only goes to show what little people can do. bravo, little gavroche! you’re the top of the class! so what are we gonna do with this snake in the grass? take this man and throw him in the tavern in there! the people will decide your fate, inspector javert! shoot me now or shoot me later- every schoolboy to his sport! death to each and every traitor! i renounce your people’s court! we keep looking forward! come in! to your positions! to your positions! they're coming. by the right! right! now hold your fire! right. front rank, heel! – save your gunpowder. – take aim! who’s there? french revolution! fire! they're coming! carry on to the barricade! get back! marius, don't! marius, what're you doing? – get down! – marius, watch out! get down! no! full back! full back, or i'll blow the barricade! blow it up and take yourself with it! christ! and myself with it. back! back! what were you thinking, marius, you could have yourself killed! marius, you saved us all! eponine! what were you doing? i kept it from you… it's from cosette… i'm sorry. what have you done? you're hurt! don’t you fret, m’sieur marius- i don’t feel any pain. a little fall of rain can hardly hurt me now. you’re here- that’s all i need to know and you will keep me safe and you will keep me close and rain will make the flowers grow… but you will live, eponine – dear god above! if i could close your wounds with words of love- just hold me now, and let it be. shelter me… comfort me… – what should be done, – so don’t you fret, – dear eponine, – m’sieur marius – i don’t feel any pain – you won’t feel any pain – a little fall of rain – a little fall of rain – can hardly hurt me now… – can hardly hurt you now… i'm here. that’s all i need to know – and you will keep me safe – i will stay with you till you are sleeping. – and you will keep me close and rain.. – and rain.. – will make the flowers… – will make the flowers… grow… they were the first to fall. the first to fall upon this barricade. gavroche. will you do something for me? anything. without you, i would have been dust. letter from the barricade.. from the barricade? i'll take it. something for me, something for you. who needs charity? boy! you stay with me, you understand? "dearest cosette, you have entered my soul and soon you will be gone. can it be only a day since we met and the world was reborn? if i should fall in the battle to come let this be my goodbye. now that i know you love… love me as well it is harder to die. i pray that god will bring me home to be with you. pray for your marius. he prays for you." this is the day the most i feared, now a young man has appeared to change my life. this marius will take away the treasure of my olden days to be his wife. but he could die tonight. i must find this boy. don’t shoot! don't shoot! i come here as a volunteer. let's see. you see that prisoner over there? a volunteer like you! a spy who calls himself javert! he’s going to get it too! get in there. get inside! – don't kill him ! i know him! enemy! marius run! – on the roof! on the roof! on the roof! get them! where are they? alright? take the left. i'll take on the right. the eye for it! eye to the roof! eye to the roof! thank you monsieur. give me no thanks, m’sieur. there’s something you can do. if it is in my power. give me the spy javert! let me take care of him. do what you have to do- the man belongs to you. no! we meet again… you’ve hungered for this all your life. take your revenge. how right you should kill with a knife. get out of here. don’t understand… clear out of here. once a thief, forever a thief. what you want, you always steal. you would trade your life for mine. yes, valjean, you want a deal! shoot me now for all i care- if you let me go, beware! you’ll still answer to javert! you are wrong, and always have been wrong. i’m a man no worse than any man. you are free, and there are no conditions- no bargains or petitions. there’s nothing that i blame you for. you’ve done your duty, nothing more. ιf ι соmе оut оf thіѕ аlіvе, you will find me rue de l'homme armé n°5. no doubt our paths will cross again. courfeyrac, you take the watch- they may attack before it’s light. everybody keep the faith, for certain as our banner flies, we are not alone- the people too must rise! marius, rest. drink with me to days gone by! to the life that used to be! at the shrine of friendship never say die… let the wine of friendship never run dry! here’s to you – here’s to you and here’s to me! do i care if i should die now she goes across the sea? life without cosette means nothing at all… don’t you weep, cosette, if i was to fall. will you weep, cosette, for me? god on high hear my prayer in my need you have always been there. he is young he’s afraid let him rest heaven blessed. bring him home bring him home bring him home! he’s like the son i might have known if god had granted me a son. the summers die one by one how soon they fly on and on and i am old and will be gone. bring him peace bring him joy he is young he is only a boy. you can take you can give let him be let him live, if i die, let me die let him live bring him home bring him home bring him… home! i was right. the rain's damaged the gunpowder. we're low on ammunition. – we're the only barricade left. what? we're the only ones left. the people have not stirred. we're abandoned by those who still live in fear. but let's not waste lives! let all who wish to go from here! do you hear the people sing singing the song of angry men it is the music of the people who will not be slaves again when the beating of your heart echoes the beating of the drums there is a life about to start when tomorrow comes! enjolras! we need more ammunitions. i'm going to the colonnade. there are dead bodies there, dry ammunition. the gunpowder's wet through. look, let's run it up. let's get everything out there. just get everything. little people know when little peoples fight we may look easy pickings – gavroche! – but we’ve got some bite! gavroche, come! so never kick a dog because he’s just a pup- – gavroche! – we’ll fight like twenty armies and we won’t give up! gavroche! gavroche, what you're doing? so you’d better run for cover when the pup grows- you at the barricades listen to this! the people of paris sleep in their beds! you have no chance, no chance at all! why throw your lives away? let us die facing our foes! make them bleed while we can! make’em pay through the nose! make’em pay for every man! let others rise to take our place until the earth is free! canons! put out your guns, come on! forward first! – wait for it! wait for it! fire! marius! there, they're bringing another for us! second canon, fire! fire! take aim! fire! take cover, boy! there's more men! there's more men, enjolras! – canon's ready! – fire! – canon's ready! and fire! advance! watch out! please, please! please! open the door please! please! we need a door, we need to barricade the door! marius! marius! long live the revolution! here's a pretty ring. oh! i like! you're alive! i saved you! how do i get out of here? – it's down way! all the way down and to the left! it’s you, javert! i knew you wouldn’t wait too long. the faithful servant at his post once more. this man’s done no wrong. he needs a doctor’s care. i warned you i would not give in! i won’t be swayed! – another hour yet and then i’m yours all our debts are paid. the man of mercy comes again and talks of justice! – come, time is running short- look down, javert! he’s standing in his grave! one more step and you die. who is this man? what sort of devil is he? to have caught me in a trap and choose to let me go free? it was his hour at last to put a seal on my fate wipe out the past and wash me clean off the slate! all it would take was a flick of his knife vengeance was his and he gave me back my life! damned if i live in the debt of a thief! damned if i yield at the end of the chase! i am the law and the law is not mocked! i’ll spit his pity right back in his face! there is nothing on earth that we share! it is either valjean or javert! and my thoughts fly apart can this man be believed? shall his sins be forgiven? shall his crimes be reprieved? and must i now begin to doubt who never doubted all those years? my heart is stone and still it trembles… the world i have known is lost in shadow is he from heaven or from hell? and does he know that granting me my life today this man has killed me even so? i am reaching but i fall and the stars are black and cold as i stare into the void of a world that cannot hold… i’ll escape now from that world from the world of jean valjean there is nowhere i can turn… there is no way to go on… did you see them going off to fight? children of the barricade who didn’t last the night. did you see them lying where they died? someone used to cradle them and kiss them when they cried. did you see them lying side by side? there’s a grief that can’t be spoken there’s a pain goes on and on empty chairs at empty tables now my friends are dead and gone. here they talked of revolution here it was they lit the flame here they sang about tomorrow and tomorrow never came… from the table in the corner they could see a world reborn and they rose with voices ringing and i can hear them now! the very words that they had sung became their last communion on the lonely barricade… at dawn. oh my friends, my friends, forgive me that i live and you are gone there’s a grief that can’t be spoken there’s a pain goes on and on… phantom faces at the window phantom shadows on the floor empty chairs at empty tables where my friends will meet no more. oh my friends, my friends, don’t ask me what your sacrifice was for empty chairs at empty tables where my friends will sing… no more. every day you walk with stronger step, you walk with longer step. the worst is over. don’t think about it, marius! with all the years ahead of us! i will never go away and we will be together every day. every day we’ll remember that night and the vow that we made. a heart full of love she was never mine to keep a night full of you – she is youthful, she is free… – the words are old but always true. cosette, cosette! – love is the garden of the young – i saw you waiting and i knew- – love is the garden of the young – thank god, you are here! waiting for you! – thank god, thank god you are home! – let it be! – thank god, thank god you are home! – at your feet! – thank god, thank god you are home! – let it be! – a heart full of love – and it wasn’t a dream – this i give you this day. – not a dream after all. m’sieur, this is a day i never can forget. is gratitude enough for giving me cosette? your home shall be with us and not a day shall pass but we will prove our love to you, whom we shall call a father to us both, a father to us all. not another word, my son. there’s something now that must be done… there lived a man whose name was jean valjean. he stole some bread to save his sister’s son for nineteen winters served his time in sweat he washed away his crime. years ago, he broke parole and lived a life apart… how could he tell cosette and break her heart? marius, it’s for cosette this must be faced: if he is caught, she is disgraced… the time has come to journey on, and from this day he must be gone! who am i? who am i? you’re jean valjean! monsieur, you cannot leave! whatever i tell my beloved cosette she will never believe me. tell her i've gone on a journey a long way away. tell her my heart was too full for farewells- it is better this way. promise me, monsieur, cosette will never know… what i have spoken, why i must go. for the sake of cosette… it must be so. thank you marius. where’s he gone without a word that wouldn’t be his way to go why so sudden, why so strange? did he say how long he'll be gone? what he asked for me to say is he's on a journey far away. he can’t leave us now how he breaks my heart. and we will never be apart. i promise. ring out the bells upon this day of days! may all the angels of the lord above in jubilation sing their songs of praise! and crown this blessed time with peace and love! the baron and baroness du thenard go away, thenardier! do you think i don’t know who you are? he’s not fooled! told you so! show monsieur what you’ve come here to show. tell the boy what you know! pity to disturb you at a feast like this but 500 francs surely wouldn’t come amiss. in god’s name say what you have to say. he speaks. you pay! what i saw, clear as light, jean valjean in the sewers one night, had this corpse on his back some boy he’d killed in a vicious attack. i was there, never fear! i even found me this fine souvenir! i know this! this was mine! this is surely some heavenly sign! then it’s true! then i’m right! jean valjean was my saviour that night! jean valjean- the old con. you pay up and i’ll say where he’s gone. where is he? where is he? – the convent! cosette. come with me. watch the buggers dance watch’em till they drop! keep your wits about you and you stand on top! masters of the land always get our share clear away the barricades and we’re still there! we know where the wind is blowing money is the stuff we smell- how dare you?! alone i wait in the shadows i count the hours until i sleep. i dreamed a dream cosette stood by it made her weep to know i die… alone at the end of the day upon this wedding night i pray take these children, my lord, to thy embrace and show them grace… god on high hear my prayer take me now to thy care where you are let me be take me now take me there bring me home bring me home! monsieur i bless your name… i am ready, fantine… monsieur lay down your burden… at the end of my days… you raised my child in love, she’s the best of my life… and you will be with god. papa, papa, i do not understand- are you all right? why did you go away? cosette, my child! am i forgiven now? thank god, thank god, i’ve lived to see this day! it’s you who must forgive a thoughtless fool! it’s you who must forgive a thankless man! it’s thanks to you that i am living, and again i lay down my life at your feet. cosette, your father is a saint! when they wounded me he took me from the barricade, carried like a babe, and brought me home… to you! now you are here again beside me now i can die in peace for now my life is blessed… you will live, papa you’re going to live it’s too soon too soon to say goodbye. yes, cosette, forbid me now to die! i’ll obey i will try… on this page i write my last confession. read it well when i at last am sleeping. it’s the story of one who turned from hating a man who only learned to love when you were in his keeping. come with me where chains will never bind you all your grief at last, at last behind you lord in heaven look down on him in mercy- forgive me all my trespasses and take me to your glory! take my hand i’ll lead you to salvation take my love for love is everlasting… and remember the truth that once was spoken: to love another person is to see the face… of god… do you hear the people sing lost in the valley of the night? it is the music of a people who are climbing to the light for the wretched of the earth there is a flame that never dies even the darkest night will end and the sun will rise. we will live again in freedom in the garden of the lord we will walk behind the ploughshare we will put away the sword the chain will be broken and all men will have their reward! will you join in our crusade? who will be strong and stand with me? somewhere beyond the barricade is there a world you long to see? do you hear the people sing? say, do you hear the distant drums? this is the future that we bring when tomorrow comes! will you join in our crusade? who will be strong and stand with me? somewhere beyond the barricade is there a world you long to see? do you hear the people sing? say, do you hear the distant drums? this is the future that we bring when tomorrow comes… tomorrow comes! transcript and sync: jcdr v1.0- 13.01.2013