♪ gold ♪ ♪ gold ♪ ♪ gold ♪ ♪ gold ♪ ♪ got a dream, boy ♪ ♪ got a song ♪ ♪ paint your wagon ♪ ♪ and come along ♪ ♪ where am i goin'? i don't know ♪ ♪ where am i headin'? i ain't certain ♪ ♪ all i know is i am on my way ♪ ♪ when will i be there? i don't know ♪ ♪ when will i get there? i ain't certain ♪ ♪ all i know is i am on my way ♪ [cockney accent] ♪ got a dream, boy ♪ ♪ got a song ♪ ♪ paint your wagon ♪ ♪ et allons-y ♪ ♪ ou nous allons? je ne sais pas ♪ [singing in swedish] [singing in german] [singing in chinese] [singing in russian] ♪ got a dream, boy ♪ ♪ got a song ♪ ♪ paint your wagon ♪ ♪ and come along ♪ ♪ where am i goin'? i don't know ♪ ♪ when will i be there? i ain't certain ♪ ♪ what will i get? i ain't equipped to say ♪ ♪ but who gives a damn? ♪ ♪ who gives a damn? ♪ ♪ who gives a damn? ♪ ♪ we're on our way ♪ ♪ where am i goin'? i don't know ♪ ♪ where am i headin'? i ain't certain ♪ ♪ all i know is i am on my way ♪ ♪ when will i be there? i don't know ♪ ♪ when will i get there? i ain't certain ♪ ♪ all i know is i am on my way ♪ ♪ where am i goin'? i don't know ♪ ♪ where am i headin'? i ain't certain ♪ ♪ all i know is i am on my way ♪ ♪ when will i be there? i don't know ♪ ♪ when will i get there? i ain't certain ♪ ♪ all i know is i am on my way ♪ ♪ got a dream, boy ♪ ♪ got a song ♪ ♪ and come along ♪ ♪ where am i goin'? i don't know ♪ ♪ when will i be there? i ain't certain ♪ ♪ what will i get? i ain't equipped to say ♪ ♪ but who gives a damn? ♪ ♪ who gives a damn? ♪ ♪ we're... ♪♪ farmers. let's go. whoa! hold it. there it is! get over here. now stop it! hello! is... they... dead? they'd... better be... 'cause i'm gonna bury 'em! let's go. [chicken clucks] [chicken squawks] aah... aah... aah... my brother. my brother. he's dead. shoulder and leg is pretty badly broken. you a doctor? horse doctor, but bones is bones. also a blacksmith. bring brother. little more in the center. oh, god... we pass on to you the body and soul of this nameless peckerhead. well, at least he went quick, and he ain't going to have to suffer through the scurvy, the dysentery, the spotted fever, the cholera, or the ague, not to mention them other maladies contracted in a consort with low women, or waste years digging in the dirt and finding dirt like i've been doing. talk about him! you want to be next? and seeing how he survived all that, he could have been hit by timber, fall down a shaft, starved, get murdered, or committed suicide on christmas eve. what i'm saying, god, is, you don't have no pity for your children when they living, so that's why we're asking you to be a little kinder to 'em when they dead. so, with all due reverence, lord, we pass on to you this corncracker's body and soul to take him and to keep him... i stake this claim for me and my new pardner over there, whatever the hell his name is... forever and ever. amen. pull him up. ♪ got a dream, boy ♪ ♪ got a song ♪ ♪ paint your wagon ♪ ♪ and come along ♪ ♪ where am i goin'? i don't know ♪ ♪ where am i headin'? i ain't certain ♪ ♪ all i know is i am on my way ♪ ♪ when will i be there? i don't know ♪ ♪ when will i get there? i ain't certain ♪ ♪ all i know is i am on my way ♪ ♪ got a dream, boy ♪ ♪ got a song ♪ ♪ paint your wagon ♪ ♪ and come along ♪ ♪ where am i goin'? i don't know ♪ ♪ when will i be there? i ain't certain ♪ ♪ what will i get? i ain't equipped to say-ay ♪ ♪ but who gives a damn? ♪ ♪ who gives a damn? ♪ ♪ we're on our way ♪♪ ♪ i still see elisa ♪ ♪ she keeps on returning ♪ ♪ as breathless ♪ ♪ and young ♪ ♪ as ever ♪ ♪ i still hear elisa ♪ ♪ and still feel a yearning ♪ ♪ to hold her against me again ♪ ♪ her heart was made of holidays ♪ ♪ her smile was made of dawn ♪ ♪ her laughter was an april song ♪ ♪ that echoes on and on ♪ ♪ since i saw elisa ♪ ♪ the shadows are falling ♪ ♪ and winter is calling above ♪ ♪ but i still see elisa ♪ ♪ whenever i dream ♪ ♪ of love ♪ elisa... that the name of your girl? yeah. oh, i found this. i thought it might make a good crutch for you now that you seem to be getting around pretty good. thanks. you know, it just don't seem right, mr. rumson... you doing all the work and me getting half. i mean, it's your mule, your tools and all. well, it was your brother. well... where i come from, mr. rumson, we're cautious of strangers who talk in an easy manner. oh, you got me down for some kind of low scuff from new orleans, hmm? sell you patent medicine with one hand, pinch your purse with the other? matter of fact, that's kind of what i was thinking. as a matter of fact, pardner, you're right, but i ain't yet sunk to horse stealing. oh, i've salted claims, yeah. i've sold whiskey to injuns. once, a man in walla walla come at me with a gun, and i killed him. i can't think of one commandment i ain't shattered regular. i never did fancy my mother and father, let alone respect them or honor them, and i have coveted my neighbor's wife... whenever i had a neighbor and whenever he had a wife. mm-mmm. and i gamble, and i cheat at cards, but there is one thing i do not do. i ain't never gulled a pardner. the one sacred thing, even to low scuff like me, is a man's pardner. 2 pennyweight short of 4 ounces. now you pass me your pouch. i'll pour your share. and, pardner, i'll swap pouches with you anytime you say. well... i meant no offense, mr. rumson, and i appreciate you saving my life and all. you just want to know what's expected of you in return. that's right. i like to know what crops i'm planting. well, when i get dead drunk, fall in a muddy street, i expect you to come get me, 'cause i don't want to die muddy drunk. if i owe a man $100, stand good for me, and if i get melancholy, which can happen, i expect you to be my companion and solace me. what happens when you get in a fight? well, if 4 of anything come at me at one time, you might lend a fist. up until that, i can pretty well take care of myself. you see, i don't fight fair. well, i don't fight at all unless i absolutely have to. i got kind of a temper, and once i start, i just can't quit. well, good. just remember that i'm on your side. well... i hear a shopkeeper's pulled into town with a wagon full of whiskey. what do you say i hoist you up that mule and we go get boiled? oh, i ain't a boozing man either, mr. rumson. well, i am. [man] town meeting tonight! there's going to be a town meeting tonight! town meeting tonight, ben. blaah! ben! ben rumson! mooney! this is my pardner. i thought you were on your way back to ireland. well, i am. i'm just passing through here. it's right on the way, you know. mooney. how's it going, willie? i ain't won a hand in 3 weeks, ben. this is my pardner. he calls himself rotten luck willie, but that's just to get the suckers. you couldn't beat him with 5 aces, so don't play with him. oh, i don't gamble. uh-huh. neither does he. [snoring] my name's ben rumson. this here's my pardner, and i'm buying whiskey for any man that can stand up. aha! hey, i was sitting there. now you're standing there. give him a whiskey. ben rumson, you have an outstanding account in the amount of $68 from yuba city, and which you skipped town on me. skipped town on you? i was run out. don't you remember, gus? i want to be paid now before they run you out of this town. put that damn gun down and stand these boys the whiskey i said. dry your hands before you weigh it. chief, me and my pardner need some supplies. a pound of sugar, a half a case of whiskey, and a case of pneumonia for schermerhorn there. a pound of sugar and a 2-pound sack of flour, please. evening. horace tabor, worcester, massachusetts. when did you get in? arrived this morning. hit a vein this afternoon, and i aim to be back in worcester by christmas. it says here california's going to be admitted to the union. just what it needs... law and order. that's good news. well, it ain't to me. it's my policy to bust out of any territory the day it become a state and head for another wilderness. i don't agree, sir. well, i don't want to hear about it. all i know is, you look around at the human race, you got to wonder what the hell god was thinking about. oh! oh! oh, oh, oh! ♪ god made the mountains ♪ ♪ god made the sky ♪ ♪ god made the people ♪ ♪ god knows why ♪ ♪ he fixed up the planet ♪ ♪ as best as he could ♪ ♪ then in come the people ♪ ♪ and gum it up good ♪ ♪ the first thing ya know ♪ ♪ they civilize the foothills ♪ ♪ and everywhere he put hills ♪ ♪ the mountains and valleys below ♪ ♪ they come along and take 'em ♪ ♪ and civilize and make 'em ♪ ♪ a place where no civilized person would go ♪ ♪ the first thing ya know ♪ ♪ the first thing you know ♪ ♪ they civilize what's pretty ♪ ♪ by puttin' up a city ♪ ♪ where nothin' that's pretty can grow ♪ ♪ they muddy up the winter ♪ ♪ and civilize it inter a place too uncivilized ♪ ♪ even for snow ♪ ♪ the first thing ya know ♪ ♪ they civilize left ♪ ♪ they civilize right ♪ ♪ till nothin' is left ♪ ♪ till nothin' is right ♪ ♪ they civilize freedom till no one is free ♪ ♪ no one except ♪ ♪ by coincidence, me ♪ ♪ the first thing ya know ♪ ♪ the boozer's in prison ♪ ♪ and the criminal, he isn't ♪ ♪ and only the rascals have dough ♪ ♪ when i see a parson ♪ ♪ i gotta put my arse in the wagon ♪ ♪ that follows the tail of a crow ♪ ♪ the first thing ya know ♪ ♪ i pick up and blow ♪ ♪ the first thing you know-oh-oh-oh ♪♪ ben! ben rumson! ben! you bloody old rumpot! mad jack duncan! well, this is my pardner. i heard you was in town. wait till i tell you what happened to harry and ernest and me. we never went home. we're having a dance. jump in! hey, climb on, pardner. we're going to a dance! ♪ out the winder go the beans ♪ ♪ out the winder go the beans ♪ ♪ out the winder go the beans ♪ ♪ i had a lucky day ♪ ♪ mary ♪ ♪ my mary ♪ ♪ my sweet canary ♪ ♪ we're goin' out this evenin' ♪ ♪ mary ♪ ♪ my mary ♪ ♪ i'm gonna take you out tonight ♪ ♪ so hand me down that can o' beans ♪ ♪ hand me down that can o' beans ♪ ♪ hand me down that can o' beans ♪ ♪ i'm throwin' it away ♪ ♪ out the winder go the beans ♪ ♪ out the winder go the beans ♪ ♪ out the winder go the beans ♪ ♪ good times are here to stay ♪ this town meeting will now come to order! ♪ hand me down that can o' beans ♪ ♪ hand me down that can o' beans ♪ ♪ hand me down that can o' beans ♪ ♪ i'm throwin' it away ♪ ♪ out the winder go the beans ♪ ♪ out the winder go the beans ♪ ♪ out the winder go the beans ♪ ♪ i had a lucky day ♪ ♪ mary ♪ ♪ ma-ma-ma-mary ♪ ♪ my cute canary ♪ ♪ we're goin' out this evenin' ♪ ♪ mary ♪ ♪ ma-ma-ma-mary ♪ ♪ i'm gonna take you out tonight ♪ ♪ so hand me down that can o' beans ♪ order! ♪ hand me down that can o' beans ♪ ♪ i'm throwin' it away ♪ ♪ out the winder go the beans ♪ ♪ out the winder go the beans ♪ ♪ out the winder go the beans ♪ ♪ go the beans, go the beans ♪ ♪ good times are here to stay ♪ ♪ yeah! ♪ ♪ hand me down that can o' beans ♪ ♪ hand me down that can o' beans ♪ ♪ hand me down that can o' beans ♪ ♪ i'm throwin' it away ♪ ♪ out the winder go the beans ♪ ♪ out the winder go the beans ♪ ♪ out the winder go the beans ♪ ♪ i had a lucky day ♪ ♪ mary ♪ ♪ ma-ma-ma-mary ♪ ♪ my sweet canary ♪ ♪ we're goin' out this evenin' ♪ ♪ mary ♪ ♪ ma-ma-ma-mary ♪ ♪ i'm gonna take you out tonight ♪ ♪ so hand me down that can o' beans ♪ ♪ hand me down that can o' beans ♪ ♪ hand me down that can o' beans ♪ ♪ i'm throwin' it away ♪ ♪ out the winder go the beans ♪ ♪ out the winder go the beans ♪ ♪ out the winder go the beans ♪ ♪ go the beans, go the beans ♪ ♪ good times are here to stay ♪♪ [thunder] anybody seen ben rumson? he, uh, left here about 20 minutes ago. thanks. are you his pardner? yeah. he, uh, owes me $80. he said you would stand good. [weakly] hey, pardner. can you help me get up on that mule? you all right? i get melancholy every now and then. it's a disease common to mountain men who live alone a lot, but if you stay with me at such... such times, i'll... i'll be ok. all right. did ezra atwell come to you for that $80? yeah. i stood good for you. i guess this is what you meant, uh, when you said you expected me to come get you muddy drunk in the street. and now you're going to be my companion in my moment of despair. well, you're my pardner, ain't you? hey. i like you, pardner. i like you, ben. well, my mother and father's dead, and my two brothers and myself, we worked the... we worked the farm. then last year, my older brother, he took himself a wife. me and my kid brother, we decided to leave michigan and come out here, maybe dig some gold, get enough money to buy some land. i don't have too much appetite for farming. well, what about your girl? girl? yeah. elisa. is she gonna come out and join you, or did she marry your brother? well, to tell you the truth, there is no elisa. i just... read that name somewhere and made it up. well, them's the best kind, but what i need now is the worst kind. it's a living hell up here, what with the bloody rain and the bloody loneliness and that bloody, bloody wind. ♪ maria ♪ ♪ maria ♪ ♪ they call the wind ♪ ♪ maria ♪ ♪ away out here they got a name ♪ ♪ for rain and wind and fire ♪ ♪ the rain is tess ♪ ♪ the fire's joe ♪ ♪ and they call the wind maria ♪ ♪ maria blows the stars around ♪ ♪ and sends the clouds a-flyin' ♪ ♪ maria makes the mountains sound ♪ ♪ like folks were up there dyin' ♪ ♪ maria ♪ ♪ maria ♪ ♪ they call the wind maria ♪ ♪ before i knew maria's name ♪ ♪ and heard her wail and whinin' ♪ ♪ i had a girl, and she had me ♪ ♪ and the sun was always shinin' ♪ ♪ but then one day i left my girl ♪ ♪ i left her far behind me ♪ ♪ and now i'm lost ♪ ♪ so gol durn lost ♪ ♪ not even god can find me ♪ ♪ maria ♪ ♪ maria ♪ ♪ they call the wind maria ♪ ♪ out here they got a name for rain ♪ ♪ for wind and fire only ♪ ♪ but when you're lost and all alone ♪ ♪ there ain't no word but lonely ♪ ♪ and i'm a lost and lonely man ♪ ♪ without a star to guide me ♪ ♪ maria, blow my love to me ♪ ♪ i need my girl beside me ♪ ♪ maria ♪ ♪ maria ♪ ♪ they call the wind maria ♪ ♪ maria ♪ ♪ maria ♪ ♪ blow my love ♪ ♪ to ♪ ♪ me ♪♪ women! look at the women! look! two women! there's two women! look at the two women! there's five women! i want to get one of them gals! [cheering] there's eight women down there! there's 15 women! 20 women! 40 women comin'! hey, there's 64 women coming into town! yahoo! hey, men, there's 80 women coming down the river! [cheering] lady, i, uh... got $50 here in gold dust. you can have it all if you, uh... let me hold the baby. very well. no, i don't want any money for it. you'll hurt his feelings, sarah. take it. [baby coos] look at them eyes, glowing like he just hit pay dirt. he's a girl, you bummer! would anyone else care to hold the baby? not now, jacob. just where are you people from? illinois, originally. i'm jacob woodling. this is my wife sarah. and who might this fine young lady be? her name is elizabeth woodling. your sister? no. my wife. your wife? i thought that one was your wife. they both are. holy moses! they're mormons! du lieber himmel! nice work, old man! ha ha ha! can we get something to eat over there? with $50 you can, sir. uh, follow me. what the hell is a mormons? ich verstehe nicht. aah! now, i don't bloody give a damn how a man prays. there's enough room in hell for all of us, but it just ain't equitable, man, for you to be having two of something all of us got none of. yeah! yeah! tell you what i'll do. your mule's lame, and i got a beauty that cost me $140. i'll swap you straight... my mule for one of your wives. now... which one's baby's mother? god knows i wouldn't want to separate mother and child. i am. good. i fancy the other one, i did. [tabor] this is immoral. i hope so! the woman's married. no, she's not! we don't recognize plural marriage in california. then i bid $250 in gold for her. wait! you can't buy a woman for money. try and get one without it. ha ha ha! all right, what about it, mormons? jacob, we need every penny, jacob, and i can't bear another day of those martyred looks. there. there it is again. this ain't a martyred look, sarah. this look is pure... hatred. quiet! brigham young has 27 wives, and he hasn't had half the trouble with them i've had with the two of you. then simplify your life, jacob. sell me. but, elizabeth, you don't know what you'll get. i know what i've had. - ha ha ha! - ha ha ha! sarah: go ahead. gentlemen... out here... i ain't a mormon. now, elizabeth is a headstrong woman, especially since her own baby died two weeks ago, but she's given her consent to be sold. therefore, if any of you want to bid for her, so be it. but... let's go outside... where there's room for more people. ooh! but these religious dogs are bloody greedy! ah, come on! come on! elizabeth, you wait here and feed the baby. i don't deem it proper that you be standing on a block. if anyone wants to inspect you, i'll send them in. order! order! i intend to conduct this auction in an orderly manner! and no bids in spanish. the last bid was $265 and two blankets. $265, two blankets, and a jackass! a 2-pound sack of coffee, a 2-pound sack of brown sugar... hey, holbrook, even if she is bought, how will she marry who bought her? she'll be married according to the prevailing law of this community, which is mining law, and she'll be treated like any other legal claim! [cheering] order! order! order! [shouting bids] the man bids $275, four blankets, one pickax, and a bedpan. hey, mooney... mooney, there's a woman in the saloon with a baby pressed against her breast. that's right, ben. wait. it ain't every day that we got a woman in atwell's pressing her breast with her baby. that's right, ben. [shouting bids] clendennon... shh! there's a woman in atwell's pressing her breast in the saloon. i know, ben, and we're bidding for her. and sam fletcher bids $300, four blankets... ben, where you going? hey, pardner, there's a breast in atwell's pressing a woman against her. you want to bet? you better stay here, ben. huh? look! there's another one! well, he's a mormon. he has two wives. i'll kill him. ben, they're bidding on her right now. whatever the bid is... whatever the bid is, i double it! ohh! $400 was bid last. mr. ben rumson gallantly doubles that bid to $800! 800 once... wait a minute! i'm his pardner, and he withdraws the bid. you have power of attorney? power of what? written permission, signed and witnessed. if he could do that, he'd talk for himself. 800 twice! wake up, ben. come on. sold to mr. ben rumson for $800! he only looks that way when he's drunk, ma'am. you ain't exactly seein' him at his best, but once i get him washed down and clipped, i think you'll be agreeably surprised. ♪ get the soap and water ♪ ♪ whoop-ti-ay ♪ ♪ get the soap and water ♪ ♪ whoop-ti-ay ♪ ♪ got a sweet perfumer ♪ ♪ to try his humor ♪ ♪ it's ben's weddin' day ♪ ♪ wash him down and clip him ♪ ♪ whoop-ti-ay ♪ ♪ wash him down and clip him ♪ ♪ whoop-ti-ay ♪ ♪ he's got a blue-eyed wonder ♪ ♪ to put him under ♪ ♪ it's his weddin'... yeah ♪ ♪ ben's weddin'... yay ♪ ♪ ben's weddin' day ♪♪ ♪ where am i goin'? ♪ ♪ i don't know ♪ ♪ where am i headin'? ♪ ♪ i ain't certain ♪ ♪ all i know is i am on my way ♪ ♪ amen ♪ dearly beloved, we have gathered together to grant this man ben rumson exclusive title to this woman mrs. elizabeth woodling and to all her mineral resources. i have drawn up this record of claim, which here and henceforth will be recognized as a certificate of marriage. so i ask you, ben, do you recognize this claim as a contract of marriage, and do you take this woman to love, honor, and cherish? oh, he does. elizabeth woodling, do you take this man ben rumson to love, honor, and obey him until death do you part? she does. i now pronounce you claimed and filed as mr. and mrs. ben rumson. yay! yay! yay! ♪ mr. rumson went to town ♪ ♪ ridin' on a pony ♪ ♪ bought a wife and brought her home ♪ ♪ and called it matrimony ♪ ♪ mr. rumson bought a bride ♪ ♪ out in californy ♪ ♪ he'd have saved a lot of money ♪ ♪ stayin' drunk and horny ♪♪ ♪ oh, susannah ♪ ♪ he's happy as can be ♪ ♪ for he's got him somethin' better ♪ ♪ than a banjo on his knee ♪♪ ♪ rumson, he got married today ♪ ♪ married today ♪ ♪ married today ♪ ♪ rumson, he got married today ♪ ♪ what'll he do tomorrow? ♪ hey, ben! i'll be glad to help you work your claim! i'll bed down by the fire if you need me. you'll not regret taking me in. i'll make you a good wife. you sure as hell will. i don't fault you for taking me for an easy woman. i was bought and paid for. but you bought me for a wife, not a whore. if you come again at me like a slavering dog, i'll shoot you as you come. watch where you point that thing. you'd like to blow my manhood halfway to the moon. i mean to make you a good wife and honor this contract of marriage, but only if you will honor it as well. i don't know what you mean by honor it. i know your sort of man, mr. rumson. my father was the same sort, born under a wandering star. i ain't fool enough to bond you with all the tyrannies of marriage. all i want is your name, mr. rumson, and the least measure of respect due to a man's wife. but... most of all... i want you to build me a cabin. a cabin... that'll stand up in winter with a fireplace of stone and a door i can bolt if i have to. and if you do that, i will say you have honored the contract. but if you regret having bought me, mr. rumson, say so now, and if i have to work the rest of my life, i'll see you get your $800 back. i admire your pioneer spirit and your straightforward manner, ma'am. is that what you've been admiring? i've been admiring you, ma'am. all right, i'll build you a cabin, and i'll give you my name proudly. you're mrs. ben rumson, and i'll kill any man that says you ain't. i'll stick to it till i move on, which is when the gold pinches out or the first snow of winter. you... you ain't going to claim duress later just 'cause i held a gun on you? no, ma'am, i ain't going to claim duress. i seem to lack all sense of shame with you, mr. rumson. [cheering] hey, ben! these men came all the way from fiddler's camp just to see your wife. hiya, ben! well... looks like i married myself a tourist attraction. some of these boys hiked 15 miles. ben, how's married life? pardner, it was so good that i forgot that i was married. [crowd ooohs] wow. i'd hike 15 miles to look at that myself. hmm. well, i can see it ain't going to be easy married to the only woman in these mountains. [cheering] all right, boys! the lady wants a cabin to live in. a proper cabin made out of wood that'll hold up in the winter! so just don't sit there gaping. get to work! ♪ send back the world ♪ ♪ there's too much night for me ♪ ♪ the sky is much too high to shelter me ♪ ♪ when darkness falls ♪ ♪ four cabin walls ♪ ♪ would be just right for me ♪ ♪ i need a threshold i can cross ♪ ♪ where i can sit and gather moss forevermore ♪ ♪ a million miles away ♪ ♪ behind the door ♪ ♪ roll up the plains ♪ ♪ there's too much view for me ♪ ♪ there's so much space ♪ ♪ between the waiting heart and whispered word ♪ ♪ it's never heard ♪ ♪ one room will do for me ♪ ♪ where every evening i can stare at someone ♪ ♪ smiling from his chair across the floor ♪ ♪ a million miles away ♪ ♪ behind the door ♪ ♪ where every evening i can stare at someone ♪ ♪ smiling from his chair across the floor ♪ ♪ a million miles away ♪ ♪ behind the door ♪ ♪ no fears ♪ ♪ no fools ♪ ♪ no lies ♪ ♪ no rules ♪ ♪ just doing with my life what life is for ♪ ♪ a million miles away ♪ ♪ behind ♪ ♪ the door ♪♪ elizabeth. elizabeth? elizabeth? [whispering] where have you been? i was down at the rapids taking a bath. you mean you was taking a bath? i mean i was taking a bath. what do you think i mean? you was down at the rapids just now, bare beam... and buck naked? i'm not like to take a bath with my clothes on, mr. rumson. are you trying to tell me you was taking a bath? that's right. i was taking a bath. in the middle of the night? mr. rumson, in a community of 400 men, would you rather i took my bath... bare beam and buck naked... in the middle of the day? what's the matter with you? what's the matter with me? i ain't running around in the middle of the night in my drawers. hey! hey, boys! listen to this. "the proprietors "of the hares and hounds club in sonora "wish to announce "that six ladies are expected to arrive "by stage from san francisco on the 15th of august." [cheering] how about that, huh? that's a hundred miles away. what good is that going to do us? ain't no one trying to steal your wife. i'll admit there's a few who wouldn't mind trying. horace tabor, for instance. he likes to give her a look every now and then. horace tabor? come on, ben. he just looks at her, that's all. she doesn't encourage him or anybody else. you're beginning to cut a comical figure and everybody's laughing at you. i would've never thought of horace tabor. [door opens] what the hell are you looking at, horace tabor? i'm looking for my stirring stick. you make any more advances towards my wife, and i'm going to shoot you down like the rattle-boned mother-lovin' dog you are! that goes for the rest of you horny gorillas! you want something to do? get on your mule and put up your money for them six french tarts coming into sonora! but keep your lusting, lechering minds off of my wife! i'd advise you, rumson, not to refer to me as a rattle-boned dog again. is that clear? i'll stick my fist in one ear and out the other! grab tabor! stop him! mr. rumson! rumson, i... mr. rumson! nobody has behaved unseemly to me. i have been treated with nothing but kindness in this camp, and you owe every one of these men, and especially mr. tabor, an apology. by god, you're right! i don't know what's come over me. i've been behaving like a damn fool, and i wish to beg your communal pardons, and especially yours, horace tabor. well, i suppose if i was married to the only woman in the neighborhood, i might be just as demented. and, mrs. rumson. uh, mrs. rumson, may i extend my compliments? you are as wise as you are fair. [gasp] get your hands off me! that lunatic tried to kill me! i demand a town meeting to consider a proper course of action. yeah. yeah. if that knife had come 1 inch lower, i would not be here today. that's right. yeah. my fellow citizens, as long as that madman prowls among us, no one is safe. yeah. yeah. therefore... we must find a solution by tonight. let us not wait until the condition worsens or his aim improves! yeah! yeah! holbrook: order! mr. chairman! the chair recognizes ezra atwell. i would like to ask ben rumson directly if he doesn't think that with a little sober effort he could control these fits of jealousy? not a chance, and it's getting worse every day. sorry, can't help you. the chair recognizes ben's pardner. ah, thank you, mr. holbrook. i've been giving it some considerable thought. ever since ben rumson, my pardner here, poor bastard... oh, excuse me, ma'am... well, ever since he became a lunatic. what's putting the strain on ben's mind is, uh, well, having the only woman for 90 miles around here. now, my proposal is that we get some more women for this town. how you going to get women to come up here? holbrook: order! order! i know where we can get some women. there's six french bawds arriving in sonora a week after saturday. ben, you're right. why don't we get them to come up here instead? rotten luck willie: how you gonna get six french bawds to come up here? if i was a french bawd, i'd go to sonora. if you was a french bawd, we wouldn't be having this trouble. all right, how are we gonna get 'em to come up here? it's simple. they gotta take the morning stage from sacramento. they gotta stop at starbottle's pass to change horses. so five or six of us go down there, hijack that stage, and reroute them tarts back up here instead. now, what's so hard about that? it all sounds just fine to me. when do we go? order! order! is it your proposal, mr. rumson, that we knock out the stage driver, steal a coach, and kidnap six women? sounds better every time i hear it. you fail to see what's wrong with this proposal? what's wrong with it? well, if you don't consider assault and battery, grand larceny, and kidnapping wrong, what the hell do you consider wrong? oh, you maniac! sit down! you insane man! schermerhorn, you're out of order. what? i yield the floor. proceed, schermerhorn. what? speak! you maniac! you insane man! what do you think them people in sonora going to do when we hijack their frauleins? they grab their guns and come up here to get them back! [banging gavel] gentlemen! mr. atwell has the floor. gentlemen, it is 50 miles from here to starbottle's without a road or a trail. not even a mule can do it. how do you expect... oh, you lunatics! besides a civil war with sonora, you want to put us in the white slave business! schermerhorn, you're out of order! again? you haven't been recognized! i'm schermerhorn. pardner: mr. holbrook. aw, sit down! ben, these boys are right. mr. holbrook, i withdraw the proposal. [muttering] have you gone out of your skull? you can't expect these men to build a two-story building just to get women up here. who said two stories? somebody's got to run the faro tables on the ground floor, don't they? rotten luck willie will do that. you can't expect rotten luck willie to build a fancy building with chandeliers and art over the bar and gambling and six beautiful tarts upstairs. criminy, ben. we'd have every bummer for miles around coming around here to spend his money on women and whiskey at atwell's and schermerhorn's. you think that's bad? why, it's terrible! just terrible! you'd turn this camp into a boom town, and we don't want to do that. soon there'd be another saloon. and another bawdy house. and another gambling hall. and another bawdy house. and another hotel. and another bawdy house. why, property would shoot straight up. they'd be making more money selling their old claims than from gold. they didn't come here to forge a nation out of the wilderness. whaddaya think they are? that's tight! that's for men with a big dream, with visions of america's greatness. well, i'm warning you, if you want to turn this into a dreary boom town metropolis filled with nothing but millionaires, all you got to do is put up one little, tiny... two-story cathouse. let's put it to a vote. any man opposed is a traitor to his country. all those in favor of bringing prostitution to this camp, say aye. aye! aye! passed! pardner, there's a shifty side to you that i'm just beginning to appreciate. why can't i go along with you? who's going to take care of elizabeth? it'll take three days and nights to get them tarts back here. you don't expect me to leave a feast like elizabeth alone in this famine? who can i trust if it ain't you? you didn't say being pardners meant wife-guarding. well, it just come up. [cheering] howdy. captain barnsfeather, fort sumter. when does the sonora stage come through? about 4:00 tomorrow afternoon. why? uh, supplies for the troops. unmount! [elizabeth humming] come in, pardner. [humming] you sure i'm not intruding? come in. [humming] you think ben will really get back in three days? why? i'd like to know. who you expecting for dinner? you! sit down. oh. thanks. [humming] i didn't know you was expecting me. ♪ i talk to the trees ♪ ♪ but they don't listen to me ♪ ♪ i talk to the stars ♪ ♪ but they never hear me ♪ ♪ the breeze hasn't time ♪ ♪ to stop and hear what i say ♪ ♪ i talk to them all ♪ ♪ in vain ♪ ♪ but suddenly my words ♪ ♪ reach someone else's ear ♪ ♪ touch someone else's heartstrings, too ♪ ♪ i tell you my dreams ♪ ♪ and while you're listening to me ♪ ♪ i suddenly see them ♪ ♪ come true ♪ ♪ i can see us on an april night ♪ ♪ looking out across a rollin' farm ♪ ♪ having supper in the candlelight ♪ ♪ walkin' later arm in arm ♪ ♪ then i'll tell you how i passed the day ♪ ♪ thinking mainly how the night would be ♪ ♪ then i'll try to find the words to say ♪ ♪ all the things you mean to me ♪ ♪ i tell you my dreams ♪ ♪ and while you're listening to me ♪ ♪ i suddenly see them ♪ ♪ come true ♪♪ they're coming out of starbottle's! fall together! hey, put me down, you bloomin' idiot! down, down, down, down! ow! that's it! get in line! come on! come on, move! yah! whoa! whoa! captain barnsfeather, fort sumter. at your service, ladies. here to protect you along the way. we're going to have to take this here detour. what detour? i can't drive these ladies through open country. you're going to have to. the road up ahead ain't safe. injuns. ain't no trouble with injuns around here. get down. get back in the coach, will you, ladies? please sit down, ladies! come on! there's a coach comin' in! there's a coach comin' in! comin' in! comin' in! comin' in! comin' in! ♪ there's a coach comin' in ♪ ♪ if you listen, you can hear it ♪ ♪ a-clip-cloppin' over the hill ♪ ♪ and the sound that you hear ♪ ♪ is as good to your ear ♪ ♪ as the call of a wild whippoorwill ♪ ♪ there's a coach comin' in ♪ ♪ you can feel it gettin' near ♪ ♪ all at once, and it bursts into view ♪ ♪ and it looks to your eye ♪ ♪ like it fell from the sky ♪ ♪ like a coach full of dreams come true ♪ ♪ for it's bringin' me eyes that are moonlight ♪ ♪ and it's carryin' lips that are wine ♪ ♪ and it's comin' with arms that are pillows ♪ ♪ and this evening it all will be mine ♪ ♪ there's a coach comin' in ♪ ♪ and you're smellin' like a steer ♪ ♪ get the soap out, it ain't far away ♪ ♪ cut the socks from your feet ♪ ♪ cut the socks from your feet ♪ ♪ rake your hair till it's neat ♪ ♪ rake your hair till it's neat ♪ ♪ there's a coach comin' in ♪ ♪ there's a coach comin' in today ♪ ♪ there's a coach comin' in ♪ ♪ hurry, hurry, do you hear? ♪ ♪ with a cargo o' joy from paree ♪ ♪ drop the tables and chairs ♪ ♪ get them beds up the stairs ♪ ♪ and be sure every lock has a key ♪ [shrieking and shouting] ♪ for it's coming mit girls ♪ ♪ who buy perfume ♪ ♪ who wear powder and rouge from paree ♪ ♪ who will have to go somewhere to get them ♪ ♪ and the somewhere to go will be me ♪ ♪ there's a coach comin' in ♪ ♪ and it's flyin' like a deer ♪ ♪ thank the lord there's relief on the way ♪ ♪ thank with all of your hearts ♪ ♪ thank with all of your hearts ♪ ♪ for them half-dozen tarts ♪ ♪ for them half-dozen tarts ♪ ♪ there's a coach comin' in ♪ ♪ there's a coach comin' in ♪ ♪ today ♪ ♪ there's a coach comin' in ♪ ♪ if you listen you can hear it ♪ ♪ a-clip-cloppin' over the hill ♪ ♪ and the sound that you hear ♪ ♪ is as good to your ear ♪ ♪ as the call of a wild whippoorwill ♪ [women shrieking and shouting] ♪ for it's bringin' me eyes ♪ ♪ that are moonlight ♪ ♪ and it's carryin' lips that are wine ♪ ♪ and it's comin' with arms that are pillows ♪ ♪ and this evening it all will be mine ♪ [whooping and hollering] ♪ there's a coach comin' in ♪ ♪ you can feel it gettin' near ♪ ♪ all at once, and it bursts into view ♪ ♪ and it looks to your eye ♪ ♪ like it fell from the sky ♪ ♪ like a coach full of dreams come true ♪ ♪ for it's bringin' me eyes that are moonlight ♪ ♪ and it's carryin' lips that are wine ♪ ♪ and it's comin' with arms that are pillows ♪ ♪ and this evening it all will be mine ♪ ♪ there's a coach comin' in ♪ ♪ now it's riding in the clear ♪ ♪ and the sound of it grows to a din ♪ ♪ no, there ain't far to go ♪ ♪ now they're hollerin' whoa ♪ whoa! ♪ there's a coach comin' in ♪ ♪ there's a coach comin' ♪ ♪ and it's here ♪♪ [cheering] [playing la marseillaise] ben! pardner, i want to talk to you! uhh! deceiving, no-good, thieving... the only reason i ain't blowing your brains out is the relief it's going to give me when i tear you apart with my bare hands. what's the matter with you? what was the two of you doing on the same horse? riding. what else is there? that's the last place i'd pick... where was her horse? that was her horse. and where... ha ha... was your horse? you had my horse. uh. if that's true, why ain't you fighting back? you ain't been yourself lately. that's a widely known fact, and you know it yourself. get up, pardner. how's your jaw? feels like it's coming off. you ought to trust me, ben. you're right. you ain't the kind of man that'd go lusting after another man's wife, especially with them six bawds arriving in town. that's right, ben. i wouldn't do that. the only kind of feelings you'd ever have would be deep ones, and if you had 'em for elizabeth, you'd come and tell me before you would her. that's right, ben. that's what i'd do. you're a good man, pardner. that's what i was coming to do, ben... tell you that i got some deep feelings for elizabeth. ben, you hit me one more time, i'll bust your skull open. i'm telling you, nothing's happened, and nothing's going to happen, 'cause i'm leaving. you're breaking up the partnership? well, if i hang around here long enough watching you and her together, i'll become as big a lunatic as you are. all right. i'll go get your share of the gold dust. you can have the mule and that new gold pan. you can even have the rocker, if you want to. what's the matter, ben? where are you going? where are you taking the rocker? i'm giving it to pardner. he's going away. going away? he... he never mentioned going away to me. of course he didn't. you don't know that man like i do, elizabeth. what are you saying, ben? he loves you. that's why he's going. i don't want pardner to go, ben. i love him. unpack, pardner. you ain't going nowhere. that woman loves you. and that puts a new wheel on the wagon, don't it? now, you get this straight, ben. i'm not going to take away your wife, and that's final. but you love her. so do you. there's only one way for anybody to be happy, and that's for one of us to move away and forget it. and i'm going. now, get out of my way. pardner, there comes a time in the life of every partnership when the party of the first part has no recourse except to knock some sense into the party of the second part. you're staying! ooh! [bong] what happened? he's staying. is he hurt? no, ma'am. just tired. he'll be good as new in a couple of weeks. where you going, ben? you love pardner? you take him. and you take good care of him. that's the decentest man i ever run across. and the strongest. now... i know you women like things legal, so here's what. it takes two weeks for you to be an abandoned claim. after that, you take the name of your new owner and file it down at the mining office. then everything will be legal. ben! i don't want you to go. i love you. what are you talking about, elizabeth? you're my husband. i don't want you to go away. what was that? don't let him go, pardner. you said she was in love with me. didn't you just say that you loved him? yes, i did, and i do. you just said you were in love with ben. yes, i did, and i am. ben, do you, uh... do you get the feeling you need a drink? how did you know? 'cause i do, too. but, pardner, you don't drink. no, but i'm changing. hmm, and it takes a woman to do it. bless their hearts. [coughs] now, elizabeth, let's try and be reasonable about this. for god's sake, make up your mind! i can't. i love both of you. but that ain't going to work, elizabeth. you can't have both of us. why not? why not? why not? 'cause, uh... a woman can't have two husbands. well, i was married to a man who had two wives. why can't a woman have two husbands? because you can't. well, why? you explain it to her, will you, ben? i'd like to oblige, pardner, but i'll be damned if i can think of a reason. out here we make up our own rules as we go along. a man rides into town with two wives, wants to sell one at auction, nobody thinks twice. if a town needs female companionship, hijacking them seems the natural thing to do, and if two pardners want to share the same wife, why not? this ain't michigan. it's gold country. why, hell, it's the golden country, untouched and uncontaminated by human hands! it's where people can someday look civilization straight in the eye and spit! you don't have to please anybody, don't have to love thy neighbor. leave the bastard alone. it's wild, human, and free, and all over this nation, they preach against it every sunday, but i don't think god's listening. you know why? because he's here... in glorious california! you trying to tell me, ben, that you're willing? i am. i think it's a humane, practical, beautiful solution. it does make a lot of sense. it don't. it don't in michigan. it does in california. well, what's everybody gonna say? what everybody are you talking about? you mean everybody in town playing chamber music with them french horns? they'd be damn glad to have two less in line, and you know it. ben, you're right. of course i'm right. you've been carrying on like somebody was asking you to do something downright immoral, like stealing gold! it ain't as bad as all that. what's bad about it? show me on that list of ten commandments where it says a woman can't have two husbands. there ain't no commandment like that. hot damn. i think it's great. it's history-making. can't hold it. elizabeth... yes, ben? we will be three... for dinner. [paint your wagon medley plays] shameless harlots! you think the lord was some old boy going around in a raggedy old sheet 2,000 years ago? you're wrong. he's here now, and he sees you! ye godless jaspers! who are you? freemasons? rosicrucians? heathen emissaries from the dens of babylon? boozers. gluttons. gamblers. harlots. fornicators! what's a fornicator? i don't know. i ain't a religious man. the stench of the city is in the lord's nostrils, and it's making him sick. the lord ain't going to take it much longer! come on up, parson, and get some old-time religion. ha ha ha! ha ha ha! good morning, mrs. rumson. how are your husbands? they're fine. thank you, mr. atwell. husbands? did i hear husbands? you animals! you pagans! o god, lord of hosts, close thine eyes, then hold thy nose. i am passing through the garbage of humanity! ha ha ha! ha ha ha! come on, dearie. scum, keep your filthy claws off my wife princess hummingbird! ha ha ha! ha ha ha! you heathen swine! do you know what god done to sodom and gomorrah when he couldn't find 50 righteous men in them stinking cities? no! no! i'll show god a place where there ain't 40. yeah! yeah! yeah! yeah! two! yeah! yeah! or one! yeah! yeah! yeah! and here it is. hooray! hooray! hooray! ♪ you want to see sin of the wickedest kind? ♪ ♪ here it is ♪ ♪ you want to see virtue left behind? ♪ ♪ here it is ♪ ♪ sodom was vice and vice-a versa ♪ ♪ you want to see where the vice is worser? ♪ ♪ here it is ♪ ♪ i mean, here it is ♪ ♪ you want to live life in the rottenest way? ♪ ♪ here it is ♪ ♪ women and whiskey night and day ♪ ♪ here it is ♪ ♪ you want to embrace the golden calf ♪ ♪ ankle and thigh and upper half? ♪ ♪ here it is ♪ ♪ i mean, here it is ♪ ♪ no name city ♪ ♪ no name city ♪ ♪ the lord don't like it here ♪ ♪ no name city ♪ ♪ no name city ♪ ♪ your reckonin' day is near ♪ ♪ no name city ♪ ♪ no name city ♪ ♪ here's what he's gonna do ♪ ♪ gobble up this town ♪ ♪ and swallow it down ♪ ♪ and goodbye to you ♪ ♪ will you go to heaven? ♪ ♪ will you go to hell? ♪ ♪ go to hell ♪ ♪ go to hell ♪ ♪ either repent or fare thee well ♪ ♪ fare thee well ♪ ♪ god'll take care o' no name city ♪ ♪ comes the end, and it won't be pretty ♪ ♪ here it is ♪ ♪ i mean, here it is ♪ ♪ here it is ♪ ♪ i mean, here it is ♪ ♪ here it is ♪ ♪ i mean, here it is ♪ ♪ a... ♪ ♪ men ♪ ♪ men ♪ ♪ men ♪ [cheering and applause] evening, pardner. evening, elizabeth. evening, ben. evening, elizabeth. i hear... george lonergan pulled out today. elizabeth: he's smart. he's broke. ben thinks placer mining is all but finished in these parts. what are we going to do? i hear talk of a strike up to red dog. i'm not leaving my home, ben. i wasn't suggesting it. i'll live on grass and mud water before i'd do that. ben isn't asking you to leave your home. damn it! why won't you leave, elizabeth? you like this town as much as i like schermerhorn! i hate what this town has become, but it's one place where the three of us can live together, and there's nothing i hate as much as i love the two of you and this cabin. if you want to go up to red dog, you go ahead and go, but i'm staying here. you come back whenever you want to. the only thing that's keeping you from being the perfect woman is your stubbornness. somebody ought to hit you with a shovel till you get over it! somebody's got to support this family! you can't go through a winter alone here. i'm not going to leave her here alone. you mean you'd let this man who took care of you and nursed you back to health light out alone while you sleep through the winter like a fat groundhog? if he goes, you go. and i ain't going. well, i'll go, then. if he goes, you go with him. damn it! didn't i just get through telling you you can't go through a winter alone here? you ever see such a stubborn woman? no, i never did. but if you ever hit her, you'll have to deal with me straightaway. i sure am one tired man tonight. must be from lifting those cards all night. i only played a few hands last night, elizabeth. i had a lucky streak, too. i broke even. you'll tell three-fingered sweeney i'll pay him back next week? you was playing poker last night? yeah, i was, and you was tired. remember? oh. well, i think i'll go down and have a last drink with them three limeys. they're, uh, pulling out tomorrow. how much does he owe sweeney? oh, now, wait a minute. i'm not going to take your money. why not? 'cause a man don't do that in michigan or in california. that's all right with me, but if you want to keep your manhood, quit trying to beat three aces with a pair of 4s. see you at breakfast. [cancan music plays] sorry, boys, pardner ain't playing tonight. willie? what? have you seen mad jack? he's over there. hey, i want to convert this dust into dollars. look out, mad jack! that man's losing gold dust every time you bump his elbow. there's more gold dust spilled here in one night than we've dug up in a month. must be a pirate's fortune under them floorboards. where are you heading? where i can find some gold, maybe fleshpot hill, maybe brass monkey ravine. i don't know. save your souls. help build a house for the lord. he can have my shack. i'm moving out. ha ha ha! ha ha ha! you heathen scum. and the lord sayeth, "money is the root of all evil." the lord sayeth that 'cause he ain't rich. he knoweth all about you, living like animals in that cabin. you're going to hell! i hope so. if it ain't too far down, i'll tunnel up and get some gold dust that's been falling through these floor... how do you figure we can dig a tunnel without being seen? we'll dig down from the floor in our cabin, under the street, and right up under here. a tunnel? you idiot! [snoring] why, you... dig now. hit him later, lunatic. here. what the hell's happening? we're going to tunnel in under willie's place. after that gold dust under willie's floor, eh? how in hell did you know that? i've been thinking about that for weeks. why didn't you speak up, eh? you dirty, lazy, no-good drunken... oh, hey! lazy, am i? damn you. shut up. duncan... ow! dig now. hit him later. right. you can hit me later. i'll remind you. don't forget. pardner's in on this. then where is he? he's home tonight. doing what? damn you! keep a civil tongue in your mouth, or i'll... you can hit him later. you can hit me later. and i'll remind you. dig. oh! hey, willie, you seen ben rumson? uh-uh. sorry. close the bloody door. oh, you're digging a hole. hey, you don't miss a trick, do you? ben? pardner, we got big news for you. you're doing what? we ain't stopping at willie's. there's 16 gambling halls, 7 hotels, and 21 saloons, and assorted playgrounds. we can build tunnels under all of them, honeycomb main street, one end to the other. what will we do with all that earth? give it to the meek. have you gone crazy? oh, he's not crazy. there's a lot of gold dust going through those floors. i think maybe there's more than a lot. i think maybe there's enough for the winter. hurry up and eat this, both of you. coffee will be ready in a minute. i don't want you to be late to work. ♪ the earth is pure muck ♪ ♪ muck's a good thing ♪ ♪ and oozin' with mud ♪ ♪ mud is just fine ♪ ♪ it's drownin' in bog ♪ ♪ bog is good luck ♪ ♪ and crawlin' with crud ♪ ♪ crud's a good sign ♪ ♪ the poor, they got hope ♪ ♪ the rich can buy soap ♪ ♪ what rainbows ain't got a pot of ♪ ♪ and i ain't got a spot of ♪ ♪ a few feet down there's a lot of ♪ ♪ just waitin' to buy ♪ ♪ tobacco and rye ♪ ♪ from now till i die ♪ ♪ the best things in life are dirty ♪ ♪ and nothing in life is ♪ ♪ better to hold than dirty gold ♪ ♪ the best things in life are ♪ ♪ filthy, dirty hunks of gold, gold, gold ♪ ♪ there's more than just gold ♪ ♪ gold is enough ♪ ♪ that's buried below ♪ ♪ beautiful gold ♪ ♪ there's seed in the ground ♪ ♪ lovable gold ♪ ♪ just waitin' to grow ♪ ♪ spendable gold ♪ ♪ a man has his creed ♪ ♪ and mine is all greed ♪ ♪ what banks have bulgin' accounts of ♪ ♪ and i ain't got an ounce of ♪ ♪ below there's endless amounts of ♪ ♪ just dirty old trash ♪ ♪ that turns in a flash ♪ ♪ to dirty old cash ♪ [crash] ♪ the best things in life are dirty ♪ ♪ the worst thing in life is ♪ ♪ wakin' up clean without a bean ♪ ♪ the best things in life are ♪ ♪ filthy dirty hunks of gold, gold, gold ♪ ♪ the best things in life are dirty ♪ ♪ the worst thing in life is ♪ ♪ being content without a cent ♪ ♪ the best things in life are ♪ ♪ filthy dirty hunks of gold, gold, gold, gold ♪ ♪ stinkin' rotten chunks of blimey, slimy ♪ ♪ lousy, lovely... ♪ all: ♪ gold ♪♪ hey, you bummers, over here! i found him in the mountains. he's half-frozen. get him to a fire. he says there's a wagon train marooned up there. get up a rescue party. let's get out of these mountains before another storm comes up. pack up! you've arrived at the height of the season, mr. fenty, but we'll find hotel space for the whole bloody lot of you. if you can shake your family and don't die, you'll have one hell of a time. we shouldn't take respectable people to no name city. we'll take in a few at our place. maybe you can take the rest. is there room in your cabin to put a couple of invalids? ben's bringing in her husband. oh, mrs. fenty, this is mrs. rumson. i'm mrs. fenty's son horton. this is my sister laura sue. here are some blankets. you keep warm by the fire. i'll take care of the children. your husband is a good man, mrs. rumson. yes, they are. i said that husband of yours is a good man. yes, uh, thank you, mrs. fenty. don't you worry. those children went straight to sleep. i'll see to mr. fenty now. thank you, mr. rumson. oh, my name's not rumson, ma'am. that's my wife's name. now, i'll bet that seems a little confusing, don't it? a little, yes. how is it you and your husband don't have the same name? oh, well, that's easy to explain. it is? in the chinese section of town was a joint called the pagoda hell saloon, and upstairs there lived a real mandarin princess who used to invite me over occasionally for a little egg roll. ben. [knock on door] i'm entering your house to pray for the unfortunate victims. not tonight, parson. these folks have suffered enough. why don't you do that outside where god can hear you better? 'cause i'll be talking in here. you can't talk to the parson that way in front of these people. this is a nice, church-going family. now go see where pardner is with the supplies. yes, ma'am. will you tell me the rest of the story after dinner? sure. about 10 years after dinner. [coughing] i'll take care of your little sister. you keep warm. mrs. rumson, if the other gentleman is your husband, who's mr. rumson? he's my husband's pardner. well, how is it you have his name? just a coincidence. oh. what are you talking about? elizabeth ain't sick. now, you listen to me. she's picked up a bad case of the respectabilities. in a few days, that poor woman's going to be burning up in a fever of virtue. and then look out. why? pardner, it's been my experience that there ain't nothing more ruthless and treacherous than a genuine good woman. ben, you have to put up at atwell's hotel tonight. i what? i can't tell them i'm living with two men. elizabeth, you ain't making any sense. if you want to be respectable, how come mr. rumson has to move out while mrs. rumson stays with another man? if anybody leaves, it really ought to be me. you can't. i already told them pardner's my husband. tell them you've made a mistake. it's only for one or two nights. what gives you that idea? why, it'll be 6 weeks before they can move. only a farmer's dumb enough to get froze and tough enough to survive it. damn farmers! all right, i'll sleep out. where you going? to get my things. i got them right here. mm-hmm. see you in the tunnels, ben. you moving out, ben? no. me, neither. i guess there's two kinds in the world, ben... people who move, people who stay. ain't that true? no, that ain't true. well, what's true? oh, there's two kinds of people... them going somewhere and them going nowhere, and that's what's true. i don't agree, ben. that's 'cause you don't know what the hell i'm talking about. i'm an ex-citizen of nowhere, and sometimes i get mighty homesick. ♪ i was born ♪ ♪ under a wand'rin' star ♪ ♪ i was born ♪ ♪ under a wand'rin' star ♪ ♪ wheels are made for rollin' ♪ ♪ mules are made to pack ♪ ♪ i've never seen a sight ♪ ♪ that didn't look better lookin' back ♪ ♪ i was born ♪ ♪ under a wand'rin' star ♪ ♪ mud can make you a prisoner ♪ ♪ and the plains can bake you dry ♪ ♪ snow can burn your eyes ♪ ♪ but only people make you cry ♪ ♪ home is made for comin' from ♪ ♪ for dreams of goin' to ♪ ♪ which, with any luck, will never come true ♪ ♪ i was born ♪ ♪ under a wand'rin' star ♪ ♪ i was born ♪ ♪ under a wand'rin' star ♪ ♪ do i know where hell is? ♪ ♪ hell is in hello ♪ ♪ heaven is goodbye forever ♪ ♪ it's time for me to go ♪ ♪ i was born ♪ ♪ under a wand'rin' star ♪ ♪ a wand'rin' ♪ ♪ wand'rin' star ♪ ♪ mud can make you prisoner ♪ ♪ and the plains can bake you dry ♪ ♪ snow can burn your eyes ♪ ♪ but only people make you cry ♪ ♪ home is made for comin' from ♪ ♪ for dreams of goin' to ♪ ♪ which, with any luck, will never come true ♪ ♪ i was born ♪ ♪ under a wand'rin' star ♪ ♪ i was born ♪ ♪ under a wand'rin' star ♪ ♪ when i get to heaven ♪ ♪ tie me to a tree ♪ ♪ or i'll begin to roam ♪ ♪ and soon you know where i will be ♪ ♪ i was born ♪ ♪ under a wand'rin' star ♪ ♪ a wand'rin' ♪ ♪ wand'rin' star ♪♪ well, willie, could you accommodate me for a couple of days? sure. take your pick. no. i mean a room i can sleep in. we don't rent empty beds. just till them sick farmers leave my house. wait. clotilde's gone off for a while. you can use her room. what happened to clotilde? some bummer says if she don't marry him, he's going to kill her. she took off for a while to let him simmer down. she said she'd marry him. he wants her to quit working. well, that's a narrow-minded attitude. [sniffing] whew. yeah. she's a fancy smeller, all right. damn farmers. [snoring] [knock on door] man: sugar, guess who this is. sugar, guess who this is. [sniffing] hey, by goom, i must have been down here too long. you're beginning to smell like a woman. good morning. good morning. good morning, mr. rumson. you're an hour late. who the hell's the stranger? he won't tell anybody. he's practically one of the family. just wanted to see what a gold mine looked like. you open your mouth about this tunnel, i'll put a stick of dynamite in it. you tell no one, do you hear? i swear before god. i said no one. start at end of number four. work an extra hour to make up for being late. how's elizabeth? oh, she's fine. in fact, we'd like to have you for dinner tonight. is that right? yeah. around 6:30. is that all right? well, that's mighty neighborly, but i got to play the organ for the parson tonight. well, possibly some other time. well, if you're just one of the family, dig! mr. rumson, i swore i wouldn't tell anyone. i hope that means except my mother and father. that means especially your mother and father. but i've never kept anything from them. it's about time you started, 'cause when you do, a whole new world opens up. you got that kind of cold, empty feeling inside of you? do all gold miners get that? it's very common. what do they do for it? i'll show you. are we going in a saloon? well, that's where the medicine closet is. it's part of that whole new world i was telling you about. after you, columbus. ♪ gentle music fills the sky ♪ ♪ at no name city ♪ ♪ and the days, they whisper by ♪ ♪ at no name city ♪ come on. ♪ sure, there's not a spot as rare in ♪ ♪ all heaven or in erin ♪ ♪ let me live until i die ♪ ♪ in no name town ♪ [hiccup] ahh. that's good. my first drink. ahh. you, uh... feeling all right? oh, yes, sir. thank you. that, uh, cold, hollow feeling is almost gone. bartender, cigars. thank you. i'll bet that's the strongest cigar you ever smoked. it's the first cigar i ever smoked. it's delicious. [gag] [coughing] you all right, mr. rumson? [gasping] yeah, fine. why do you think my father is so dead set against saloons? 'cause farmers ain't got the time to enjoy the good things in life. farmer's got a busy day... got to pull them turnips, talk about the weather. that's about as much as he can handle. [women shouting] quiet! who are they, mr. rumson? oh, they're on the menu. i don't understand, sir. now, horton... now, you ain't going to tell me that you ain't never had a woman, neither? no, sir, i haven't. that's abso... why, that's terrible! do you know that you could go blind? we got to do something about that right away. i wouldn't know what to do. don't worry. with your talent, you'll catch on in no time. uh, willie, ahem... if you was to go trapping for the first time, who would you take along as a guide? that would be gracie. she loves adventure. oh, grace, uh... i give you the boy. give me back the man. that was the best, mr. rumson. you think so, huh? without any doubt. now, i like smoking and drinking very much, but they can't touch the last one. that's got everything. most people would go along with that. well, good night. mrs. rumson will be sorry you're not coming for dinner. last thing she said was to bring you. oh? well, in that case, maybe i will. good. i'll walk you home after. now, remember, you wasn't in no tunnels, and you wasn't in no saloon. i remember. and the food that... shut the door, will you, ben? for this we thank thee, lord. amen. amen. amen. amen. will you wipe your feet off? evening, ben. come sit down. evening, elizabeth. well, pardner, you handled grace pretty good. not as good as horton did this afternoon, but pretty good. where have you been, horton? uh, gold mining, pa. your son's the most natural-born gold miner that i ever met. i brought him up not to be afraid to try anything. well, that boy tries everything. did you know that the fentys had an apple farm back in pennsylvania? applejack, huh? no, sir, we did not make applejack. then why grow apples? you think everything that comes out of the earth should be used to make liquor? whenever possible, yes. mrs. fenty: you should read the bible. i have read the bible. didn't that discourage you about drinking? no, but it sure killed my appetite for reading. we've been telling the fentys what good land's all around this valley. mr. fenty: yes. we're thinking of settling down here. oh, great! that news is so god damn great, i need a drink. don't listen to him. he's always joking. elizabeth, the whiskey's gone. i know. i poured it all out. you what? out of courtesy to our guests, ben. if you want a drink, get your carcass out of this house. you can't order a man out of his own house. his house? that's right. it's his house. mrs. rumson is married to him? she's married to the both of us. at the same time? well, we're pardners. i have never heard... shut up and sit down! don't order the guests around. why not? it's his fault. without his god damn respectability, we'd still be a happily married... triple. there's not one drink of whiskey? take mine. boy, you saved my life. horton, how did that bottle get into your pocket? how long have you been drinking hard liquor? well, since this afternoon. you don't approve, but, believe me, until you've had a good cigar and whiskey, you're missing the second and third best things in life. horton. where did you take him, ben? damn you, ben rumson. what are you going to teach this boy next? how to cheat at cards or just physical education with one of willie's floozies? that's the best one. horton! is that what you did today, ben? that's what he did today. this boy's got a talent for dissipation that is absolutely unique. out. get out! i order you out of this house. this is not your house. this is my house. that's right. i give her the house. and if you ever cross this threshold again, i'll shoot you down like any other marauder. what's she so het up about? she's got a right to be. you had to take your revenge out on the virtue of this boy, show him what an ugly town this really is. well, if we live here, then we're ugly, too. i could never go back to what we had before. it's over, and it's done, and it's finished. now get out. wait. if ben goes, i'd have to go. then you go, too. evening, ma'am. good evening, ma'am. you mutton-headed clunk. you knew she didn't want them to know. elizabeth's a sick woman. you got no respect for anybody or anything. i don't have your kind of respect, sitting at the table with your hands folded and that pious look on your face after a hard day's thieving. it ain't thieving. then why are we hiding it? why are we talking about it? she's back there all alone. whose fault is that? yours. she threw us out. don't you say anything against elizabeth around me. i'll say anything i want. she's my wife, bought and paid for, and don't you forget it. i never do forget it. i got nothing more to say to you. then you got nothing i want to hear, and if i ever catch you sneaking back without me, they'll never find all of you to bury. bull and bear fight! see the great bull that cut up the mountain lion in sonora and triumphed over 10 large dogs! save your souls, heathen scum! allow this butchery to take place on sunday, and god will wash his hands of you. thank you, parson. now move on. god is going to cause the earth to open and swallow up this nest of evil, and the lord ain't fooling. [rumbling] i hear strange rumblings in the earth below. yeah, they're going to sell a lot of tickets to the bull and bear fight on sunday. a lot of gold dust is going to fall. but we don't have a tunnel under there. arghhh! you bloody maniac! why didn't you build one? we can get under there. there's nothing to it. maybe so... but we could sure use a bit of help. hey. hey. what about that young farmer? where is he? horton fenty? little did i realize it, but when that boy set foot on the second story of willie's saloon, history was in the making. is that where he is? that's where he always is... puffing on a cigar, drinking whiskey, knocking on them doors. if that boy don't slow down, them girls are going to strike for shorter hours. i'll see if i can catch him between rooms tonight. if we could divert his energy, we could be through by morning. your bet. i'll bet 50. i'll see that and raise you 50. not for me. i'm out. have you seen the future father of our country? yeah. he went home. when will he be back? soon as his folks are asleep. tell him i want to see him. leave your door open and wait your turn. here. uh, pardon me, sir. could you lend me $10? why don't you go home and go to bed? i was thinking of doing it the other way around. thank you, sir. i'll see your 50. red 7 wins again! pardon me. here's your $10 back, sir, oh, and 10 more. red 7. you're losing a lot of money, pardner. where do you get it all? thieving. ♪ i would give the world to see ♪ ♪ how i used to be ♪ ♪ when i had no ax to grind ♪ ♪ except for choppin' wood ♪ ♪ day was day, and night was night ♪ ♪ wrong was never right ♪ ♪ it didn't matter where i went ♪ ♪ as much as where i stood ♪ ♪ i had dreams ♪ ♪ average size ♪ ♪ there were stars ♪ ♪ in the skies ♪ ♪ not my eyes ♪ ♪ then i got ♪ ♪ gold fever ♪ ♪ no rompin', rollin' girl-and-fellow stuff ♪ ♪ can cure the ♪ ♪ gold fever ♪ ♪ nothin' can help you ♪ ♪ but the yellow stuff ♪ ♪ what ♪ ♪ can stop that itchin' ♪ ♪ ain't ♪ ♪ around the kitchen ♪ ♪ gold, gold ♪ ♪ hooked am i ♪ ♪ susannah, go ahead and cry ♪ ♪ once we all did honest work ♪ ♪ farmer, lawyer, clerk ♪ ♪ married men and single men ♪ ♪ and some who ain't too sure ♪ ♪ now i look at them and see ♪ ♪ duplicates of me ♪ ♪ cured of what we suffered from ♪ ♪ and sufferin' from the cure ♪ ♪ who can say ♪ ♪ why we came? ♪ ♪ where's the hope? ♪ ♪ where's the flame? ♪ ♪ we're the same ♪ ♪ when you've got ♪ ♪ gold fever ♪ ♪ no rompin', rollin' girl-and-fellow stuff ♪ ♪ can cure the ♪ ♪ gold fever ♪ ♪ nothin' can help you but the yellow stuff ♪ ♪ what ♪ ♪ can stop that itchin' ain't ♪ ♪ around the kitchen ♪ ♪ gold, gold, hooked am i ♪ ♪ susannah, go ahead and cry ♪ ♪ gold fever ♪ ♪ gold fever ♪ ♪ gold fever ♪ ♪ gold fever ♪ ♪ gold fever ♪♪ deal. by god, we made it. well, now they can open the box office. [crowd cheering] here's your day's earnings, ben. and here's yours, pardner. i want you to tell ben something for me, will you? he's sitting right there. just tell him that i'm moving on before winter sets in. he can get himself another pardner. you bummers can, uh, divide up anything i got coming here. where you heading? well, red dog. i hear they're digging it up in chunks over there. by goom, they're always digging it up in chunks somewhere else. good luck, man. thanks, jack. jack, uh... tell ben to look in on elizabeth. the fentys are pulling out. she'll be alone. [fanfare] you stinkin', rotten heathen scum! silence, judas. today is sunday. you are going to hear the word of god whether you like it or not. get out of here! and the word of the lord is doom, doom! sic the bull on him. you can't do that. let him out! boo! this town of lust and corruption. get out of here. out, out, out. [cheering] you are not going to fight that bear on the sabbath. i represent the lord, and the lord says get out of this arena. out, out! the lord will open up the earth, and you will sink into the pit. i said, sink into the pit. i said, sink into the pit! well, i'll be god damned. hello, parson. welcome to hell. [crash] [bull roars] aah! aah! aah! aah! [grrrooo] yet though i walk through the valley of the shadow of death... you better run through that valley, not walk. [grrrooo] aah! aah! [grrrooo] uhh! will you kindly watch where the hell you're falling, my good man? aah! aah! mach schnell! now where are you going? ach du lieber himmel! nein, nein, nein! nein, nein, nein! have you... have you seen pardner and ben? pardner and ben? have you seen pardner and ben? where's ben? ben rumson! thy rod and thy staff, they comfort me. aah! [grroo] aah! you bloody maniacs, go down there and get him! ben, where you going? ♪ no name city ♪ ♪ no name city ♪ ♪ the lord don't like it here ♪ ♪ no name city ♪ ♪ no name city ♪ ♪ your reckonin' day is here ♪ ♪ no name city ♪ ♪ no name city ♪ ♪ here's what he's gonna do ♪ ♪ gobble up this town ♪ ♪ and swallow it down ♪ ♪ and goodbye to you ♪ ♪ will you go to heaven? ♪ ♪ will you go to hell? ♪ ♪ go to hell ♪ ♪ either repent or fare thee well ♪ ♪ fare thee well ♪ ♪ god'll take care of no name city ♪ ♪ comes the end, it won't be pretty ♪ ♪ here it is ♪ ♪ i mean, here it is ♪ ♪ here it is ♪ ♪ i mean, here it is ♪ ♪ here it is ♪ ♪ i mean, here it is ♪♪ ♪ let me live until i die ♪ ♪ in no name town ♪ ♪ let me live until i die... ♪♪ i don't know about you, fellas, let's get out of here. i think this place is crumbling. oh! [woman screams] aah! oh! oh! be calm, my dear. aah! oh, pardner, where's ben? what the hell are you doing there? i didn't like that town, but it'll seem funny not having it there. it's going to be a cold... long, hard winter without it. i'm not leaving my home, pardner. i know that. do you have to go? can't we all try... living the way we used to? no. no, i can't. you see, ever since that night the fentys came and we were... you and i were like a real husband and wife... i... couldn't live with you any other way. and you belong to ben. he shared you with me. i didn't share you with him. ma'am... whoa, mule. did you know them farmers was unpacking? you mean the fenty party? well, that might sound like a party to you, but it ain't my idea of one. hop in. you can't get out of town that way. well, come on. giddup, mule. i didn't see they was building a church and courthouse till the rest of the town went under. neither did i. you still heading up to red dog? yeah. still am. well, that's all right with me. i don't care where we go as long as i stay a hundred miles ahead of civilization. you moving out, ben? you want me to die? why, i can just see this valley in about a year's time... all broke out in a rash of white clapboard houses, schools, churches, courthouse, museum. ugh. just one big, bad dream. what about elizabeth? i'm going to miss that woman, pardner, but you can't blast her out of that cabin. funny, here we go and build a town just the way we like it, and then we go and sink it. giddup, mule! come on. come on. giddup. come on. pull up, ben. whoa, mule. what's the matter? i'm staying. i have to. i always said you had a farmer's mentality, but you're still the best pardner there ever was. well, you're the only pardner that ever was. then that makes me the best. ain't you going to say goodbye to elizabeth? no. i don't think i'll do that. i'll get melancholy enough later on as it is without picking up an extra load now. you say something nice to her for me, par... say, what the hell is your name anyway? sylvester newel. sylvester newel. yeah, just one "l." well, that's a good name for a farmer. well... so long, pardner. so long, ben. never liked a man as much as i like you. giddup! giddup! ben says goodbye, elizabeth. aren't you going with him? no. no, i'm not going anywhere. do you think he'll be all right, pardner? where's he going? ♪ where am i goin'? i don't know ♪ ♪ where am i headin'? i ain't certain ♪ ♪ all that i know is i am on my way ♪ ♪ when will i be there? i don't know ♪ ♪ when will i get there? i ain't certain ♪ ♪ all that i know is i am on my way ♪ ♪ got a dream, boy ♪ ♪ got a song ♪ ♪ paint your wagon ♪ ♪ and come along ♪ ♪ where am i goin'? i don't know ♪ ♪ when will i be there? i ain't certain ♪ ♪ what will i get? i ain't equipped to say ♪ ♪ but who gives a damn? ♪ ♪ i'm on my way ♪ ♪ where am i goin'? i don't know ♪ ♪ where am i headin'? i ain't certain ♪ ♪ all i know is i am on my way ♪ ♪ when will i be there? i don't know ♪ ♪ when will i get there? i ain't certain ♪ ♪ all that i know ♪ ♪ is i am on my way ♪ ♪ got a dream, boy ♪ ♪ got a song ♪ ♪ paint your wagon ♪ ♪ and come along ♪ ♪ where am i goin'? ♪ ♪ i don't know ♪ ♪ when will i be there? ♪ ♪ i ain't certain ♪ ♪ what will i get? ♪ ♪ i ain't equipped to say ♪ ♪ but who gives a damn? ♪ ♪ we're on our way ♪ ♪ where am i goin'? i don't know ♪ ♪ where am i headin'? i ain't certain ♪ ♪ gold fever ♪ ♪ when will i be there? i don't know ♪ ♪ when will i get there? i ain't certain ♪ ♪ all i know is i am on my way ♪ ♪ gold fever ♪ ♪ gold fever ♪ ♪ got a dream, boy ♪ ♪ got a song ♪ ♪ paint your wagon ♪ ♪ and come along ♪ ♪ and get ♪ ♪ gold fever ♪ ♪ no rompin', rollin' girl-and-fellow stuff ♪ ♪ can cure the ♪ ♪ gold fever ♪ ♪ nothin' can help you ♪ ♪ but that yellow stuff ♪ ♪ what ♪ ♪ can stop that itchin' ♪ ♪ ain't ♪ ♪ around the kitchen ♪ ♪ gold, gold ♪ ♪ gold, gold ♪ ♪ gold ♪ ♪ they ♪ ♪ call the wind ♪ ♪ maria ♪ ♪ away out here ♪ ♪ they got a name ♪ ♪ for rain and wind ♪ ♪ and fire ♪ ♪ the rain is tess ♪ ♪ the fire's joe ♪ ♪ and they call the wind ♪ ♪ maria ♪ ♪ i was born ♪ ♪ under a wand'rin' star ♪ ♪ i was born ♪ ♪ under a wand'rin' star ♪ ♪ wheels are made for rollin' ♪ ♪ mules are made to pack ♪ ♪ i've never seen a sight ♪ ♪ that didn't look better lookin' back ♪ ♪ i was born ♪ ♪ i was born... ♪ ♪ a million miles ♪ ♪ send back the world ♪ ♪ there's too much night for me ♪ ♪ the sky is much too high to shelter me ♪ ♪ when darkness falls ♪ ♪ four cabin walls ♪ ♪ would be just right for me ♪ ♪ a million miles away ♪ ♪ behind ♪ ♪ the door ♪ [men's chorus hums i talk to the trees] ♪ where am i goin'? i don't know ♪ ♪ where am i headin'? i ain't certain ♪ ♪ gold fever ♪ ♪ gold fever ♪ ♪ all that i know is i am on my way ♪ ♪ you want to see sin of the wickedest kind? ♪ ♪ here it is ♪ ♪ you want to see virtue left behind? ♪ ♪ here it is ♪ ♪ sodom was vice and vice versa ♪ ♪ you want to see where the vice is worser? ♪ ♪ here it is ♪ ♪ i mean, here it is ♪ ♪ you want to see life in the rottenest way? ♪ ♪ here it is ♪ ♪ women and whiskey night and day ♪ ♪ here it is ♪ ♪ you want to embrace the golden calf ♪ ♪ ankle and thigh and upper half? ♪ ♪ here it is ♪ ♪ i mean, here it is ♪ ♪ goin'? i don't know ♪ ♪ where am i headin'? i ain't certain ♪ ♪ all that i know is i am on my way ♪ ♪ gold fever ♪ ♪ nothin' can help you ♪ ♪ but the yellow stuff ♪ ♪ what ♪ ♪ can stop that itchin' ♪ ♪ ain't ♪ ♪ around the kitchen ♪ ♪ gold, gold ♪ ♪ hooked am i ♪ ♪ susannah, go ahead and cry ♪ ♪ a million miles away ♪ ♪ behind ♪ ♪ the door ♪♪