[dramatic classical melody, background] referee: gentlemen, cock your pistols. narrator: barry's father was bred, as many sons of genteel families... ...to the profession of the law. there is no doubt he would've made an eminent figure in his profession... [gunshots] ...had he not been killed in a duel... ...which arose over the purchase of some horses. [birds chirping] narrator: barry's mother, after her husband's death... ...lived in such a way as to defy slander. many a man who had been charmed by the spinster... ...renewed his offers to the widow. but she refused all proposals of marriage... ...declaring that she lived only for her son... ...and the memory of her departed saint. [thunder rumbles] [somber classical melody on violin, background] [thunder rumbles] narrator: first love! what a change it makes in a lad. what a magnificent secret it is he carries with him! the tender passion gushes out of a man's heart. he loves as a bird sings... ...or a rose blows from nature. killarney. now, what shall it be? [classical melody plays softly, background] nora: turn around and face the wall. narrator: the object of barry's attention, and... ...the cause of his early troubles... ...was his cousin, nora brady by name. i have hidden my neck ribbon somewhere on my person. if you find it, you can have it. you are free to look anywhere for it. i will think little of you if you do not find it. [whispers] i cannot find it. you haven't looked properly. i cannot find it. i'll give you a hint. i feel the ribbon. [classical melody continues, background] why are you trembling? at the pleasure of finding the ribbon. liar. [quin shouts orders] [military march music plays] [quin shouts orders] narrator: about this time the uk was greatly excited... ...by the threat... ...of a french invasion. the noblemen and people of condition... ...loyally raised regiments... ...to resist the invaders. their scarlet coats and swaggering airs filled barry with envy. [military march music continues] brady town sent a company to join... ...the kilwangen regiment of which john quin was the captain. the whole country was alive with war's alarums... ...the kingdoms ringing with military music. [quin shouts orders] quin: fire! [gunshots, scattered screams] [traditional irish folk music] [folk music continues] [somber classical melody on violin, background] nora: redmond, what is the matter? barry: were you obliged to dance five times with captain quin? nora: i don't care a fig for captain quin. he dances prettily, and is a pleasant rattle of a man. he looks well in his regimentals. he asked me to dance. how could i refuse him? barry: but you refused me. nora: i can dance with you any day. to dance with my cousin looks as though i could find no other partner. besides, captain quin is a man. you're only a boy and penniless. if i meet him again, you will find out who is the best man. i'll fight him captain as he is. oh, don't be so silly! i mean it. but captain quin is known as a valiant soldier. it is mighty well of you to fight yokels... ...but to fight an englishman is a different matter. you best have him take you home. redmond! [classical melody continues, background] narrator: barry resolved never to see nora again. but such resolutions, steadfastly held for a whole week... ...are abandoned in a few moments of despair. quin: no, nora, no, except for you and four others... ...i vow before all the gods my heart... ...has never felt the soft flame. ah, you men, you men, john... ...your passion's not equal to ours. we are like some plant i've read of. we bear but one flower and then we die. you, you, you mean you... ...never felt an inclination for another? never, my john. how can you ask such a question? quin: [whispers] oh, darling norelia! narrator: nora was chaperoned by her brothers mick and ulick... ...whose interests would be affected... ...by the favourable outcome of her affair with quin. [classical melody continues, background] nora: redmond, how nice to see you. [gasps] redmond! barry: how could you do this to me? redmond, what's the matter? nora: what are you saying? i think this might be the moment to return something to you. thank you, redmond. i must have forgotten it. yes, you did. captain quin, may i introduce my cousin, redmond barry. quin: miss brady, it would appear... ...you both have something private to discuss. it would be best for me to withdraw. captain quin, i have nothing private to discuss with my cousin. miss brady, it appears you have a great deal to discuss. captain quin, he don't signify any more than my parrot or lapdog. indeed! are you in the habit of giving... ...intimate articles of your clothing to your parrot or lapdog? mayn't i give a bit of ribbon to my own cousin? you're welcome, miss. as many yards as you like. quin: when ladies make presents to gentlemen... ...it's time for other gentlemen to retire. i wish you both a good day. mick: jack quin! what's the matter? quin: i'll tell you, sir. i've had enough of miss brady and your irish ways. mick: what is it? we'll accustom you to irish ways, or we'll adopt english ones. it is not the english way for ladies to have two lovers. and so, i'll thank you to pay me the sum you owe me. and i resign all claims to this young lady. if she fancies schoolboys, let her take 'em, sir. mick: you're joking! i never was more earnest. nora: john, wait. mick: meddling brat! your hand is in everybody's pie! what business have you to quarrel with a gentleman of substance? [scattered conversations] [soft classical melody, background] mr. brady: redmond, me boy, take a seat. [soft classical melody continues] [inaudible conversation between quin and mr. brady] [glass tinkles] mrs. brady and ladies, if you please. this sort of toast is drunk too seldom in my family... ...and you'll please to receive it with all honours. here's to captain and mrs. john quin and a long life to them. [excited applause] mr. brady: kiss her, jack, for faith you've got a treasure. come on, jack. [guests shout encouragingly] mr. brady: there's the man! [giggling and applause] mr. brady: a long and happy life together. all ex cept barry: a long and happy life together. quin: thank you. [scattered conversations] mr. brady: redmond! [silence] here's my toast to you, captain john quin. [glass shatters, guests shriek] mr. brady: redmond, how dare you behave like that in my house! mrs. brady, take the children out. my dear fellow, are you all right? [quin groans] mr. brady: in heaven's name, what does all the row mean? the fact is, sir... ...the young monkey's in love with nora. he found her and the captain in the garden today. now he's for murdering jack quin. mr. brady, i've been insulted grossly in this house. i'm not satisfied with these ways of going on. [gasps] i'm an englishman! and a man of property! and this impudent young swine... ...should be horsewhipped! mr. quin can have satisfaction any time he pleases... ...by calling on redmond barry, esquire of barryville. i'll see the boy home. [church bells ring in distance] grogan: a pretty day's work, master redmond. knowing your uncle is distressed for money... ...trying to break off a match which will bring £1,500 a year into the family... quin has promised to pay off the £4,000 which is bothering your uncle. he takes a girl without a penny... ...a girl that's flinging herself at the head of every man in these parts. and missing them all! and you, who ought to be attached to your uncle as to your father... i am. and this is the return you make for his kindness? didn't he harbour you when your father died? hasn't he given you and your mother a fine house, rent free? mark this, and come what will of it... ...i will fight the man who pretends the hand of nora brady. i'll follow him if it's into the church and fight him there. i'll have his blood, or he'll have mine. faith, and i believe ye! i never saw a lad more game in me life. give me a kiss, me boy. you're after me own soul. as long as i live, you shall never want a friend or a second. will you take my message to him? and arrange a meeting? well, if it must be, it must. [birds chirping] [dramatic instrumental beat, background] grogan: look here, redmond, me boy, this is a silly business. the girl will marry quin, mark my words. and as sure as she does, you'll forget her. you're but a boy and quin is willing to consider you as such. right, quin? yes. grogan: now, dublin's a fine place. if you've a mind to ride there and see the town for a month... ...here's ten guineas at your service. will that satisfy you, captain quin? yes, if mr. barry will apologize and go to dublin... ...i will consider the whole affair honourably settled. ulick: [whispers] say you're sorry, redmond. you can easily say that. barry: i'm not sorry. and i'll not apologize. and i'd as soon go to dublin as to hell. [instrumental beat intensifies, background] ulick: then there's nothing else for it. god bless you. this isn't my pistol. ulick: it's all right, it's one of mine. yours will serve, if it's needed, for the next round. good luck, redmond. ulick: gentlemen... ...cock your pistols. ulick: gentlemen... ...aim your pistols. [dramatic instrumental beat continues, background] ulick: one. two. three. [gunshots, quin yells] barry: is he dead? grogan: quite dead. mick: this has been a sad day's work for our family. ye've robbed us of 1,500 a year. now you'd better ride off before the police are up. they'd wind of this before we left kilwangen. come on, redmond, i'll go home with you. narrator: how different barry's fate might have been... ...had he not fallen in love with nora... ...and had he not flung the wine in captain quin's face. but he was destined to be a wanderer. and the battle with quin set him on his travels at an early age... ...as you shall soon see. the boy must go into hiding for a short time, anyway. dublin's the best place. he can stay there 'til matters have blown over. but the child has never been away from home before. wouldn't he be as safe here? i wish that were true, aunt belle. but the bailiffs may be on their way already. now, dublin is five days ride away from here. there's not a soul who'll know him there. i don't want to harp on unpleasant matters... ...but you do know what can happen to him if he's taken. i'll be all right. barry: i'll be all right in dublin, mother. [somber melody on harmonica plays in background] narrator: no lad with liberty for the first time, and 20 guineas... ...is very sad. barry rode towards dublin thinking not so much of... ...the kind mother left alone, and the home behind him... ...but of tomorrow and all the wonders it would bring. barry: excuse me, miss. would it be possible to have a drink of water? [somber melody on wind instruments plays in background] good day to you, young sir. good day. will you join us in a drink? no, thank you. would you like something to eat? that's very kind of you, but i have to be on my way. thank you. goodbye. [light drumbeat, background] [soft classical melody on wind instrument, background] barry: excuse me, sir. good morning again, young sir. feeney: don't even think about it. get down off that horse. feeney: raise your hands above your head, please. come forward. stop. how do you do. i'm captain feeney. captain feeney! feeney: captain feeney, at your service. the captain feeney? none other. may i introduce you to my son... seamus? - how do you do? - how do you do? feeney: to whom do i have the honour of speaking? my name's redmond barry. feeney: how do you do, mr. barry? now we must get onto the more regrettable stage of our brief acquaintance. turn around and keep your hands high above your head, please. [soft instrumental melody, background] there must be 20 guineas in gold here, father. you seem to be a very well set up young gentleman, sir. captain feeney, that's all the money my mother had in the world. mightn't i keep it? i'm just one step ahead of the law myself. i killed an english officer in a duel, and i'm going to dublin until things cool down. feeney: mr. barry... ...in my profession we hear many such stories. yours is the most intriguing and touching i've heard in weeks. nevertheless, i cannot grant your request. but, i'll tell you what i will do. feeney: i'll allow you to keep those fine boots... ...which normally i would have for myself. the next town is only five miles away. and i suggest you now start walking. mightn't i keep my horse? i would like to oblige you... ...but, people like us must be able to travel faster than our clients. feeney: good day, young sir. feeney: you can put down your hands now, mr. barry. [soft instrumental melody continues, background] [military drumbeat] corporal: gale's regiment of foot... ...commanded by lieutenant general charles gale... ...which has distinguished itself during the recent troubles... ...wants several men to supply the places of those veterans... ...who have deserved to be pensioned at one shilling a day. corporal: all clever young fellows who are free and able... ...and are ambitious of becoming gentlemen by bearing arms... ...are hereby invited to meet the recruiting officer... ...who promises that they shall meet with every encouragement... ...that merit and good behaviour can entitle them to. those meeting the qualifications will immediately receive... ...his majesty's royal bounty of one and a half guineas... ...with complete clothing, arms and accoutrements. king george and old england forever. [cheering and applause] [captain shouting commands] narrator: for a young man in difficulty... ...who had killed a man in a duel and was anxious to find refuge from the law... ...the chance to earn distinction in the european wars... ...seemed a stroke of good fortune. and king george needed men too much to heed from whence they came. [scattered conversations] hey, lad! lad! barry: can i have a new beaker? this one is full of grease. [laughter] covered in grease! give the gentleman a towel and a basin of turtle soup. [laughter] [laughter] [cheering and applause] if you want to vex him, ask him about his wife... ...the washerwoman, who beats him. barry: mr. toole, is it a towel of your wife's washing? they say she wipes your face often with one. [soldiers jeer] ask him why he wouldn't see her yesterday when she came here. barry: mr. toole, why did you hide when mrs. toole came to visit you? afraid of getting your ears boxed? [soldiers jeer and chuckle] gentlemen, you may fight it out with fists if you choose. brock: we'll form a square for that purpose. brock: gentlemen, step this way, please. shake hands. shake hands. take your stance. no biting, kicking or scratching. the last man to remain standing is the winner. gentlemen, commence fighting, now! [soldiers cheer] [cheering continues] [riotous cheering and applause] [military march music plays] narrator: barry's training continued at the camp. within a month he was transformed into a proper young soldier. the regiment's strength was steadily increased... ...by the arrival of other troops... ...in preparation for joining their armies fighting in germany. one occasion... ...brought the welcome appearance of his second in the fatal duel... ...captain grogan. [military march music continues] it would have helped if we'd known what had become of you. didn't you think of writing to your mother? of course. but the shame i felt of losing her money... ...my father's sword and pistols... i couldn't tell her. she wouldn't care about those things. you are her only concern. tonight you must write her a proper letter. tell her that you're safe and well. barry: i will. is miss brady well? there are only six miss bradys now. has something happened to nora? she took on so about your going away... ...that she had to console herself with a husband. she is now mrs. john quin. mrs. john quin? was there another john quin? grogan: no. the same, me boy. he recovered from his wound. the shot you hit him with could not hurt him. it was made of tow. tow? the bradys wouldn't let you kill 1,500 a year out of the family. the plan of the duel was arranged in order to get you out of the way. the cowardly quin couldn't be brought to marry... ...from fear of you. grogan: but hit him you certainly did, me lad. with a fine thick plugget of tow. he was so frightened, it took him an hour to come to. are you in want of cash? you may draw on me. for i got a couple of hundred from your uncle. while that lasts, you shall never want. narrator: it would require a great historian to explain the causes... ...of the seven years' war in europe... ...to which barry's regiment was now on it's way. let it suffice to say, that england and prussia were allies... ...and at war against... ...france, sweden, russia and austria. [military march music plays] narrator: barry's first taste of battle... ...was only a skirmish against a rearguard of frenchmen... ...who occupied an orchard beside a road... ...down which the english main force wished to pass. though this encounter is not recorded in any history book... ...it was memorable enough for those who took part. [military drumbeat] [french captain shouts commands] french captain: fire! [gunshots] [captain shouts commands] french captain: fire! [gunshots] [gunshots] [captain continues shouting commands] [gunshots] [military march music continues] [soldiers yelling] [barry gasps] i've only a hundred guineas left to give you... ...for i lost the rest at cards. kiss me, me boy, for we'll never meet again. [barry sobs] [soft instrumental melody, background] narrator: it is well to dream of glorious war in a snug armchair. it is a different thing to see it first hand. after his friend's death, barry's thoughts turned from military glory... ...to those of escaping the service... ...to which he was tied for six years. narrator: gentlemen talk of the age of chivalry... ...but remember the ploughmen, poachers and pickpockets they lead. it is with these sad instruments great warriors and kings... ...have been doing their murderous work in the world. [soft instrumental melody continues, background] narrator: barry could not have fallen into worse circumstances... ...than those in which he found himself. but fate did not intend he should remain long an english soldier. an accident occurred... ...which took him out of the service in a rather singular manner. [soft instrumental melody continues, background] jonathan: freddie, i hope you won't be angry with me, but... ...i've got something to tell you which you won't be happy about. freddie: what is it? jonathan: first, promise me you'll keep your temper. jonathan, don't be an ass! you're making a big mystery of it. what is going on? jonathan: i have to go away again. for about two weeks. freddie: oh, god, you're not serious? jonathan: i am. there's nothing i can do about it. freddie: where to this time? jonathan: to bremen, carrying important despatches to prince henry. freddie: but you promised me last time it would be never again. jonathan: i know. and i've kept my part of the bargain, but... ...pontersby insists i'm the only one who can be entrusted with the trip. narrator: here was the opportunity to escape from the army... ...for which he had been searching. it was only a few miles to the area occupied by their prussian allies... ...where this officer's uniform and papers... ...should allow him to travel without suspicion... ...and to stay ahead of the news of his desertion. freddie: then, we'll have little time together. jonathan: are you cross with me? freddie: damn you, i can't stay cross with you for long. oh, jonathan... ...at times like this i realize how much i care for you... ...and how empty life would be without you. jonathan: frederick! [dramatic march music, background] narrator: barry was glad to see the uniforms of the prussian infantry. they showed him that he was out of english occupied territory. his intention was to make for holland... ...almost the only neutral country in europe, in those times... ...and thence to get a passage home, somehow. as he rode away... ...barry felt he was now in his proper sphere. and determined never again to fall from the rank of a gentleman. [birds chirping] barry: [in german] excuse me, miss. [in german] yes. barry: [in german] good day. [in german] good day. [in german] do you speak english? i'm speaking little. i have not eaten all day, no food. is there an inn nearby where i might have a meal? no... i don't think so. there is nothing to eat before grünberg. do you live near here? [in german] yes. would you... feed me? i'd be happy to pay you. i think so. [thunder rumbles] barry: is it a boy or girl? a boy. barry: what's his name? peter. barry: how old is he? he's one year old. where is peter's father? where he is? barry: yes. in the war. how long has he been gone? lischen: sorry... i didn't understand. what? [barry repeats in german] oh! a long time. since springtime. it must be hard for you to be alone. it is. it must be dangerous for you in the war. i'm an officer and must do my duty. [baby whines] you are sometimes... ...ionely? sometimes. [thunder rumbles] [soft classical melody, background] lischen: what did you say your name is? lieutenant fakenham. lischen: no, i mean... ...what is the name before fakenham? [in german] my first name? jonathan. would you like... ...to stay with me? for a few days, or sometimes? barry: that would be very nice. [soft instrumental melody, background] [in german] goodbye, my beautiful lischen. [in german] goodbye, redmond. [in german] i love you. [in german] i love you. [in german] look after yourself. lischen: [in german] god be with you. narrator: a lady who sets her heart on a lad in uniform... ...must be prepared to change lovers pretty quickly... ...or her life will be a sad one. this heart of lischen's was like many a neighboring town... ...that had been stormed and occupied many times before barry came to invest it. [dramatic march music, background] narrator: during five years of war... ...the illustrious frederick had so exhausted the males of his kingdom... ...that he had to employ recruiters... ...who would commit any crime, including kidnapping... ...to keep supplied those brilliant regiments of his with cannon fodder. [dramatic march music continues, background] potzdorf: good evening, sir. i'm captain potzdorf. to whom have i the honour of speaking? good evening. i'm lieutenant fakenham, gale's regiment of foot. potzdorf: pleased to meet you. can we be of assistance to you? barry: thank you, but i am carrying urgent despatches... ...and must continue on my way. and your destination? bremen. then you're obviously lost, lieutenant. bremen is in the opposite direction. barry: are you sure? yes. wouldn't you know it! my departure was so hasty that my orderly forgot to prepare proper maps. potzdorf: i understand. please, do not be offended, lieutenant... ...but are you carrying your identity papers? yes, of course. may i see them? of course. thank you. thank you, lieutenant, i hope i haven't inconvenienced you. not at all. now that we are riding in the same direction... ...may i offer you a meal and a bed for the night... ...and a proper map for the journey? that's kind of you, captain. i'd be honoured to accept. [dramatic march music, background] narrator: barry was treated with great civility... ...and was asked questions about england. he answered as best he could, inventing many stories. he described the king and ministers... ...boasted that the british ambassador in berlin was his uncle... ...and even offered potzdorf a letter of introduction. [men in bar sing folk tune] narrator: his host seemed satisfied with these stories. but, he led barry on with a skillful combination of questions... ...and flattery. i know so little of your country of england... ...except that you are the bravest nation in the world... ...and that we are fortunate to have such allies. lieutenant fakenham... ...let us drink to the friendship of our two great nations. to our two great nations. [men continue singing] [chuckles] aren't you lucky, going to bremen tomorrow? i know one of the loveliest women in europe there. would you take a letter to her? barry: certainly. by the way, to whom are you carrying your despatches? general williamson. general williamson? general percival williamson? yes, the same. sergeant! [men continue singing] [in german] this man is under arrest. under arrest? captain potzdorf, sir... ...i'm a british officer. you're a liar and an imposter. you're a deserter. potzdorf: i suspected you this morning. your lies and folly have confirmed this. you pretend to carry despatches to a general, dead these ten months. you say the british ambassador in berlin... ...is your uncle, with the ridiculous name of o'grady. now, will you join and take the bounty, or be given up? i volunteer. [military march music, background] narrator: the prussian service was worse than the english. the life of a private soldier was frightful. punishment was incessant. every officer had the right to inflict it. the gauntlet was a common penalty for minor offences. more serious ones were punishable by mutilation or death. at the close of the seven years' war the army... ...renowned for its disciplined valour, was officered by native prussians. but it was mostly composed... ...of men from the lowest levels of humanity... ...hired or stolen from every nation in europe. thus, barry fell into the worst company... ...and was soon far advanced in the science of every kind of misconduct. [gunfire] [yelling] [gunfire and yelling continue] [potzdorf shouts for assistance] potzdorf: [in german] help. [in german] get me out of here. [gunfire continues] [coughing] [potzdorf continues shouting] [soldiers shouting in distance] [military march music continues, background] [gunfire continues] [drum-roll] [colonel delivers speech in german] narrator: the colonel's speech declared the king's satisfaction... ...with the conduct of the regiment at the battle of audorf... ...and with corporal barry's bravery in rescuing captain potzdorf... ...which was to be rewarded with the sum of two frederick d'or. [in german] corporal barry, eight paces forward... ...march! colonel: corporal barry. you're a gallant soldier, and evidently of good stock... ...but you're idle and unprincipled. you're a bad influence on the men. and for all your bravery, i'm sure you'll come to no good. i hope the colonel is mistaken. i have fallen into bad company, but i've only done as other soldiers do. i've never had a friend or protector before... ...to show that i was worthy of better things. the colonel may say i'm ruined, and send me to the devil. but, i would go to the devil to serve the regiment. [upbeat classical melody, background] colonel: [in german] corporal barry, fall in. narrator: the war ended and barry's regiment was garrisoned in the capital. he had, for some time, ingratiated himself with captain potzdorf... ...whose confidence in him was about to bring its reward. [upbeat classical melody continues, background] good morning, redmond. good morning, captain. i should like you to meet my uncle, the minister of police. good morning, herr minister. redmond... ...i've spoken to the minister regarding your services and your fortune is made. we shall get you out of the army... ...appoint you to the police bureau, and, in time... ...we'll allow you to move in a better sphere. thank you, captain. your ioyalty to me and service to the regiment has pleased me. now there is another occasion on which you can assist us. if you succeed... ...your reward will be secure. i'll do my best, sir. there is a gentleman in berlin in the service of the empress of austria. he calls himself the chevalier de balibari. he appears to be a professional gambler. potzdorf: he's a libertine: fond of women, of good food... ...polished, obliging. he speaks french and german indifferently. but we have reason to fancy that monsieur de balibari... ...is a native of your country of ireland. and that he has come here as a spy. your knowledge of english... ...makes you an ideal choice to go into his service... ...and find out whether or not he is a spy. does this assignment interest you? minister, i'm interested in anything that can be of service to you... ...and captain potzdorf. [upbeat classical melody, background] you will not know a word of english. if the chevalier remarks on your accent, say you are hungarian. you served in the war. you left the army for medical reasons... ...then served monsieur de quellenberg for two years. he's now with the army in silesia, but you'll have a certificate from him. [knock on door] [in german] come in. barry: [in german] good morning, your honour. [in german] so you are the young man recommended by seebach. [in german] yes, your honour, here are my credentials. [in german] your name is lazlo zilagy? [in german] yes, your honour. [in german] monsieur de quellenberg recommends you highly. [in german] monsieur is a very good man. narrator: it was imprudent of him... ...but when barry saw the chevalier's splendour... ...and noble manner... ...he felt unable to keep disguise with him. those who have never been exiled... ...know not what it is to hear a friendly voice in captivity... ...and would not understand the cause... ...of the burst of feeling now about to take place. [in german] you seem the right one to me. [in german] thank you, your honour. [in german] are you ill? sir... ...i have a confession to make to you. barry: i'm an irishman. my name is redmond barry. i was abducted into the prussian army. now i've been put into your service... ...by my captain potzdorf and his uncle, the minister of police... ...to serve as a watch upon your... actions... ...and to give information to them. [barry sobs] narrator: the chevalier was much affected... ...at thus finding one of his countrymen. for he too was an exile. [barry cries] narrator: and a friendly voice, a look... ...brought the old country back to his memory. he is very religious and attends church regularly. after mass he comes home for breakfast. he then takes an airing in his carriage. narrator: barry presented his reports regularly to the minister. the details were arranged beforehand with the chevalier. he was instructed to tell the truth... ...as much as his story would possibly bear. the information he gave was very minute and accurate... ...though not very important. [hooves clomping] [soft classical melody, background] barry: [in german] wine or punch, your honour? chevalier: [in german] wine. narrator: it was agreed that barry should keep his character of valet. that, before strangers, he should not know a word of english. and that he should keep a lookout on the trumps when serving the wine. having excellent eyesight... ...and a natural aptitude... ...he was able to give his dear patron much assistance... ...against his opponents at the green table. lf, for instance, he wiped the table with a napkin... ...the enemy was strong in diamonds. if he adjusted a chair it meant ace king. if he said, "punch or wine, my lord?"... ...hearts were meant, and so forth. [soft classical melody continues, background] narrator: the prince of tübingen... ...who had intimate connections with the great frederick... ...was passionately fond of play as were the gentlemen... ...of almost all the courts of europe. [in german] you owe 15,500 frederick d'or. [soft classical melody continues, background] chevalier... ...though i cannot say how... ...i believe you have cheated me. i deny your grace's accusation... ...and beg you to say how you have been cheated. i don't know. but i believe i have been. your grace owes me 15,500 frederick d'or... ...which i have honourably won. chevalier... ...if you will have your money now you must fight for it. if you will be patient... ...maybe i will pay you something another time. your grace, if i am to be so tame as to take this... ...then i must give up an honourable and lucrative occupation. i have said all there is to be said. i am at your disposal for whatever purposes you wish. good night. was the prince cheated? barry: in as far as i am able to tell, herr minister, no. i believe he won the money fairly. potzdorf: what are the chevalier's intentions? barry: i'm not sure. the prince told him that if he wanted his money he'd have to fight for it. minister: a meeting with the prince is impossible. the prince has left him no other choice. [inaudible whispering] will you be able to return here tomorrow without arousing suspicion? i know they won't allow a meeting with the prince. but if i say that, do you know any reason why he'll pay me what he owes? you must tell them i intend to demand satisfaction. don't look so downcast, my boy. they cannot harm me, the austrian embassy will see to that. the worst they can do is send me out of this dreary country of theirs. if they should, don't worry... ...you shall not be left behind. have no fear of that. the king has determined to send the chevalier out of the country. has he already demanded satisfaction? not yet, but i believe he intends to... ...possibly today. minister: then this must be done tomorrow. potzdorf: all the arrangements are made. you said he takes a drive after breakfast every day. yes, sir. is there any reason he should do any different tomorrow? no, sir. good. when the chevalier comes out to his carriage in the morning... ...two officers will meet him and escort him to the frontier. potzdorf: his baggage will be sent after him. excellent. narrator: at ten o'clock the next morning... ...the chevalier de balibari... ...went out for his regular morning drive. where's my servant, lazlo? i will let down the steps, your honour. barry: what is this about? please get inside. am i under arrest? 1st officer: we're driving to the frontier. frontier? but i'm on my way to the austrian ambassador's house. 1st officer: my orders are to escort you to the frontier... ...and see you safely across the border. but, i'm not going to the frontier. i have very important business at the austrian ambassador's house. 1st officer: my orders are to take your honour... ...to the frontier by any means necessary. if you come willingly... ...i'm to give you this purse on behalf of the prince of tübingen... ...containing 2,000 frederick d'or. barry: all europe shall hear of this. narrator: and so, without papers or passport... ...and under the eyes of two prussian officers... ...barry was escorted across the frontier into saxony and freedom. the chevalier himself had uneventfully crossed the frontier the night before. [soft classical melody, background] narrator: by these wonderful circumstances, barry was free again... ...and began his professional work as a gamester... ...resolving, thenceforward and forever, to live the life of a gentleman. [gasping and giggling] [in french] the four wins. narrator: soon he and the chevalier were received in all the courts of europe... ...and were speedily... ...in the very best society where play was patronized... ...and professors of that science always welcome. [operatic music with male tenor, background] [in french] the seven. [in french] why not the seven? [mumbles in french] all... all, yes. [inaudible whispering] chevalier: [in french] no more bets. [crowd moans] [in french] number seven... chevalier: loses. [scattered, hushed reactions] [operatic music continues, background] [in french] place your bets. chevalier, will you give me credit for 5,000 louis d'or, please? chevalier: of course, lord ludd. [in french] five thousand. [in french] now, everything on the four. [crowd grumbles] [in french] yes, i know, everything on the four. [in french] no more bets. [crowd moans] chevalier: [in french] the four loses. [in audible whispering] [in french] it is not important. [in french] now, i'm weary. [in french] i would like dinner. shall we? excuse me, lord ludd. barry: if you don't mind. not at all. narrator: they always played on credit with anyone of honour or noble lineage. they never pressed for their winnings... ...or declined to receive promissory notes. but woe to the man who did not pay when the note became due. barry was sure to wait upon him with his bill. there were few bad debts. french referee: [in french] saluez. narrator: it was barry's skill with the sword, and readiness to use it... ...that maintained the reputation of the firm, so to speak. french referee: [in french] on guard! i will pay you today, sir. narrator: thus, it will be seen, their life... ...for all its splendour, was not without danger and difficulty... ...requiring talent and determination for success. and required them to live a wandering and disconnected life. and, though they were swimming upon the high tide of fortune... ...and prospering with the cards, they had little to show for their labour... ...but some fine clothes and a few trinkets. [classical instrumental melody, background] narrator: five years in the army, and considerable experience of the world... ...had dispelled any romantic notions regarding love... ...with which barry commenced life. and he had it in mind, as many gentlemen had done before him... ...to marry a woman of fortune and condition. and, as such things so often happen... ...these thoughts coincided with his setting sight upon a lady... ...who will play a considerable part in the drama of his life. the countess of lyndon... ...viscountess bullingdon of england... ...baroness castle lyndon of ireland. a woman of vast wealth and great beauty. she was the wife of sir charles lyndon... ...knight of the bath... ...minister to george iii at several of the courts of europe. a cripple, wheeled about in a chair... ...worn out by gout and a myriad of diseases. her ladyship's chaplain, mr. runt... ...acted as tutor to her son, the little viscount bullingdon... ...a melancholy little boy, much attached to his mother. [classical melody continues, background] [scattered conversations] [crowd groans] [chevalier calls the play in french] [classical melody continues, background] [chevalier calls the play in french] [crowd groans] [classical melody continues, background] [chevalier continues calling the play] [crowd groans and chuckles] i'm going outside for a breath of air. yes, my lady. [classical melody continues, background] [classical melody continues, background] narrator: to make a long story short... ...six hours after they met... her ladyship was in love. and once barry got into her company... ...he found innumerable occasions to improve his intimacy... ...and was scarcely out of her ladyship's sight. [classical melody continues, background] barry: good evening, gentlemen. all: good evening. barry: sir charles. good evening, mr. barry. have you done with my lady? pardon? come, sir. i'm a man who would rather be known as a cuckold than a fool. i think, sir charles, that you've had too much to drink. what? barry: as it happens, your chaplain, mr. runt, introduced me to your lady... ...to advise me on a religious matter, of which she is an expert. [laughs hysterically] [gasps] he wants... to step into my shoes. he wants to step into my shoes. [sir charles coughs] charles: is it not a pleasure for me, as i am drawing near the goal... ...to find my home such a happy one... ...my wife so fond of me, that she is even now thinking of appointing a successor? isn't it a comfort to see her like a prudent housewife... ...getting everything ready for my departure? i hope you're not thinking of leaving us, sir charles? not so soon as you may fancy, perhaps. i've been given over many times these four years. and there was always a candidate or two... ...waiting to apply for the situation. i'm sorry for you, mr. barry. it grieves me to keep you or any gentleman waiting. had you not better arrange with my doctor... ...or have the cook flavour my omelette with arsenic, eh? what are the odds, gentlemen, that i live to see mr. barry hang yet? [cackles] sir, let those laugh that win. gentlemen. [sir charles gasps and sputters] [short, rapid gasps] [shrieks] i'll get a surgeon. [gasping] have some brandy, sir charles. narrator: from a report in the saint james' chronicle: "died at spa in belgium... "...sir charles reginald lyndon... "...knight of the bath, member of parliament... "...and for many years... "...his majesty's representative at various european courts. " "he has left behind him a name which is endeared to all his friends. " [classical piano melody, background] "dearly beloved... "...we are gathered together here in the sight of god... "...and in the face of this congregation... runt: "...to join together this man and this woman in holy matrimony." narrator: a year later, on the fifteenth of june... ...in the year 1773... ...redmond barry had the honour to lead to the altar the countess of lyndon. the ceremony was performed by the reverend runt, her ladyship's chaplain. "and therefore is not in any way to be enterprised... "...nor taken in hand unadvisedly... "...lightly or wantonly... "...to satisfy men's carnal lusts and appetites... "...like brute beasts that have no understanding. "but reverently... "...discreetly... "...advisedly... "...soberly... "...and in the fear of god. runt: "duly considering the causes for which matrimony was ordained. "first... "...it was ordained for the procreation of children to be brought up... "...in the fear and nurture of the lord, and to the praise of his holy name. "secondly... "...it was ordained for a remedy against sin, and to avoid fornication." [runt continues reciting marriage rites] narrator: barry had now arrived at the pitch of prosperity... ...and by his own energy had raised himself to a higher sphere of society... ...having procured his majesty's gracious permission to add the name... ...of his lovely lady to his own. thenceforth, redmond barry assumed the style... ...and title of barry lyndon. [somber classical melody, background] redmond, would you mind not smoking for a while? narrator: lady lyndon was soon destined to occupy a place in barry's life... ...not very much more important than the elegant carpets and pictures... ...which would form the pleasant background of his existence. my lord bullingdon, you seem particularly glum today? you should be happy that your mother has remarried. not in this way. and not in such haste. and certainly not to this man. i think you judge your mother too harshly. do you not like your new father? not very much. he seems to me little more than a common opportunist. i don't think he loves my mother at all. and it hurts me to see her make such a fool of herself. [somber classical melody continues, background] narrator: at the end of a year her ladyship presented barry with a son. bryan patrick lyndon, they called him. [men sing traditional folk song] narrator: her ladyship and barry lived, after a while, pretty separate. she preferred quiet, or to say the truth, he preferred it for her... ...being a great friend to a modest and tranquil behaviour in woman. besides, she was a mother, and would have great comfort... ...in the dressing, educating and dandling of their little bryan. for whose sake it was fit, barry believed... ...that she should give up the pleasures and frivolities of the world... ...leaving that part of the duty of every family of distinction... ...to be performed by him. [somber classical melody] [birds chirping] [somber instrumental melody, background] narrator: lady lyndon tended to a melancholy and maudlin temper... ...and, left alone by her husband, was rarely happy or in good humour. now she must add jealousy to her other complaints... ...and find rivals even among her maids. [somber classical melody continues, background] samuel, what would the time be? twenty-five minutes past eleven, my lady. shall we make this the last game, ladies? [woman reads in french] [somber classical melody continues, background] [knock on door] good morning, ladies. woman: good morning, sir. would you mind excusing us? i'd like a word alone with lady lyndon. i'm sorry. [somber classical melody continues, background] this coat is made of the finest velvet... ...all cunningly worked with silver thread. tailor: no finer velvet has ever been woven... ...and you will see none better anywhere. lady lyndon: pardon me, gentlemen. good morning, dearest. we're taking the children for a ride to the village. we'll be back for tea. barry: have a nice time. i'll see you then. goodbye, little bryan. barry: lord bullingdon. take good care of your mother. come now, give your father a proper kiss. lady lyndon: lord bullingdon... ...is that the way to behave to your father? lord bullingdon, have you lost your tongue? my father was sir charles lyndon. i have not forgotten him, if others have. lord bullingdon, you have insulted your father! madam, you have insulted my father. dearest, would you excuse us? we have something to discuss in private. barry: gentlemen. [door slams] barry: one. two. [lord bullingdon gasps softly] three. four. five. six. barry: lord bullingdon... ...i have always been willing to live with you on friendly terms. but be clear about one thing: as men serve me, i serve them. i never laid a cane on the back of a lord before... ...but, if you force me to, i shall speedily become used to the practice. barry: do you have anything to say for yourself? no. you may go. narrator: barry believed, and not without some reason, that it had been... ...a declaration of war against him by bullingdon from the start... ...and that the evil consequences that ensued... ...were entirely of bullingdon's creating. [vibrant classical music, background] magician: i shall make you into a real magician now. i shall show you the knot that never was. narrator: as bullingdon grew up to be a man... ...his hatred for barry assumed an intensity... ...equalled only by his increased devotion to his mother. magician: very good, bryan. a little bow. put it on the table for me. thank you. narrator: for bryan's eighth birthday... ...the local nobility, gentry and their children... ...came to pay their respects. the inside and outside are quite empty. wave your hand over the top. is there anything there? wonderful! wonderful, colourful silk handkerchiefs! take a bow, bryan, you did that beautifully. [applause] very good. let's see if you have something behind your ear. yes, you have. magician: a little ball. let's make it vanish. it's gone. here it is, behind my elbow. magician: wave your hand over my green silk handkerchief... ...and see if we can produce a magic flower. i wonder if we can? here it comes. the colours of the rainbow. you know all the colours of the rainbow produce but one colour, bryan. nothing in my magic cabinet. they produce the colour... white. and there is my own... ...beautiful white rabbit. magician: bryan, you have done very well. a little bow. [children scream excitedly] [vibrant classical music, background] we crept up on their fort, and i jumped over the wall first. my fellows jumped after me. you should have seen the frenchmen's faces when 23 rampaging he-devils... ...sword and pistol, cut and thrust, came tumbling into their fort. in three minutes we left as many artillery men's heads... ...as there were cannon balls. later we were visited by our noble prince henry. "who is the man who has done this?" i stepped forward. "how many heads was it that you cut off? " he says. "nineteen," says i, "besides wounding several." well, i'll be blessed, if he didn't burst into tears. barry: "noble, noble fellow," he said. "here is nineteen golden guineas, one for each head that you cut off." what do you think of that? were you allowed to keep the heads? no, they always become the property of the king. will you tell me another story? i'll tell you one tomorrow. will you play cards with me tomorrow? of course i will. now go to sleep. will you keep the candles lit? bryan, big boys don't sleep with the candles lit. i'm afraid of the dark. my darling, there's nothing to be afraid of. but, i like it with the candles lit. all right, you can sleep with the candles lit. thank you, papa. good night. [birds chirping] mrs. barry: ah, redmond! it's a blessing to see my darling boy has attained a position i knew was his due. and for which i pinched myself to educate him. little bryan is a darling boy... ...and you live in great splendour. your lady wife knows she has a treasure... ...she couldn't have had, had she married a duke. but, if she should tire of my wild redmond... ...and his old-fashioned irish ways... ...or if she should die... ...what future would there be for my son, and my grandson? mrs. barry: you have not a penny of your own... ...and cannot transact any business without her signature. upon her death the entire estate would go to young bullingdon... ...who bears you little affection. you could be penniless tomorrow... ...and darling bryan at the mercy of his stepbrother. shall i tell you something? there is only one way for you and your son to have real security. you must obtain a title. i shall not rest until i see you lord lyndon. you have important friends. they can tell you how these things are done. for money, well-timed and properly applied... ...can accomplish anything. narrator: and barry was acquainted with someone... ...who knew how these things were done. this was the distinguished barrister and former government minister... ...lord hallam... ...whose acquaintance he had made, like so many others, at the gaming table. do you happen to know the thirteenth earl of wendover? barry: i don't believe i do. well, this nobleman is one of the gentlemen of his majesty's closet... ...with whom our revered monarch is on terms of considerable intimacy. in my opinion, you would be wise to fix upon him... ...your chief reliance for the advancement of your claim to the peerage. when i take up a person, mr. lyndon, he, or she, is safe. there is no question about them anymore. my friends are the best people. i don't mean they're the most virtuous... ...or, indeed, the least virtuous, or the cleverest... ...or the stupidest, richest or best born. but, the best. in a word, people about whom there is no question. i cannot promise how long it will take. you can appreciate it is not an easy matter. but, any gentleman with an estate, and 30,000 a year... ...should have a peerage. [vibrant classical music, background] and there standing behind me was a total stranger. i looked at him, and he said to me: "excuse me, sir, could you tell me, is lord wendover alive or dead?" [laughter] i was so astonished, i couldn't think of what to say. then i became angry, and said to him, "he's dead." narrator: the striving after this peerage... ...was one of barry's most unlucky dealings. he made great sacrifices to bring it about. he lavished money here, and diamonds there. he bought lands at ten times their value... ...purchased pictures and articles of virtue at ruinous prices. he gave entertainments to those friends to his claim... ...all, being about the royal person, were likely to advance it. and, i can tell you, bribes were administered. and in high places, too. so near the person of his majesty that you would be astonished to know... ...what great noblemen condescended to receive his loans. pontefract: this is by ludovico cordi... ...a disciple of alessandro allori. it's dated 1605... ...and shows, "the adoration of the magi." it's beautiful. yes. i love the use of the colour blue by the artist. yes, that is very beautiful. what is the price of this one? [chuckles] well, this is one of my best pictures. but, if you really like it, i'm sure we can come to some arrangement. [vibrant classical music continues, background] [titles and greetings exchanged] lord wendover, your majesty. i'm glad to see you here today, lord wendover. what news of lady wendover? thank you, your majesty. lady wendover is much better. good! present my compliments to her. say we miss her company here. and what of those excellent boys of yours? they're well. charles has gone to sea under captain geary on the ramillies. john has gone to oxford to learn how to preach and pray. good, good! your majesty, may i present mr. barry lyndon. mr. lyndon. we were very fond of sir charles lyndon. and how is lady lyndon? she's very well, your majesty. mr. lyndon raised a company of troops to fight in america against the rebels. good, mr. lyndon. raise another company and go with them, too. [titles and greetings exchanged] narrator: barry was born clever enough at gaining a fortune... ...but incapable of keeping one. for the qualities and energies which lead a man to achieve the first... ...are often the very cause of his ruin in the latter case. now he was burdened with the harassing cares and responsibilities... ...which are the dismal adjuncts of great rank and property. and his life now... ...seemed to consist mostly of drafts of letters to lawyers and money-brokers... ...and endless correspondence... ...with decorators and cooks. [church bells ring in distance] gentlemen, i'm going to leave you for a few minutes. carry on with your work. yes, sir. bryan: bully. what does... ..."strenuous" mean? bryan, i'm trying to work. but what does it mean? it means "an effort requiring strength." what does "quadrangle" mean? a quadrangle is a four-sided figure like a square or a rectangle. now, please be quiet, and let me get on with my work. [thud] bryan, please be quiet! have you seen my pencil? no, i haven't. [rattling] bryan, please stop making so much noise. that's my pencil. no, it isn't. it is. it's my pencil! i've had this all morning. it's my pencil! listen, will you be quiet! it's my pencil! i'll teach you a lesson. [bryan screams] barry: what the devil's going on in here? [bryan cries] barry: i told you never to lay a hand on this child. one. two. three. four. five. barry: six. [bullingdon gasps] will that be all, mr. redmond barry? barry: yes, that will be all. well then, look you now. from this moment, i will submit to no further chastisement from you. i will kill you, if you lay hands on me ever again. is that clear to you, sir? get out of here! [orchestra plays classical melody] [bryan's shoes clomp loudly] don't you think he fits my shoes very well, your ladyship? bullingdon: dear child... ...what a pity it is i'm not dead, for your sake. the lyndons would then have a worthy representative. bullingdon: and enjoy all the benefits... ...of the illustrious blood of the barrys of barryville. would they not... ...mr. redmond barry? from the way i love this child... ...you ought to know how i would've loved his elder brother... ...had he proved worthy of any mother's affection. bullingdon: madam! i have borne as long as mortal could endure... ...the ill-treatment of the insolent irish upstart whom you've taken to your bed. bullingdon: it is not only his lowly birth and brutality of manners... ...which disgust me. but the shameful nature of his conduct toward your ladyship... ...his brutal and ungentlemanlike behaviour... ...his open infidelity... ...his shameless robberies and swindling of my property, and yours. and as i cannot personally chastise this low-bred ruffian, and cannot bear... ...to witness his treatment of you... ...and loathe his company as if it were the plague... ...i have decided to leave my home and never return. bullingdon: at least, during his detested life... ...or during my own. [lady lyndon sobs] [bullingdon shrieks] [yelling and screaming] [yelling and screaming continue] [somber classical melody, background] - good day, my lord. - good day, barker. will anyone be joining your lordship? no, i shall be alone. the roast beef's very good, my lord. hello, neville. how are you? ah, barry. hello. i see you're alone. why don't you join me? oh, thank you, barry, you're very kind, but... ...i'm expecting someone to join me. what a shame! lady lyndon and i have missed your company lately. please give my respects to lady lyndon... ...and say i've been very busy of late and not been able to go about much. i shall. the eighth of next month we're having some guests over for cards... ...we'd love to have you and lady wendover join us. i'll check my diary, but i think i'm engaged on that evening. i hope you're not engaged. we'd love to see you again. i'll write and say if i'm free or not. i look forward to hearing from you. it's nice to see you again. [somber classical melody continues, background] narrator: if he had murdered lord bullingdon... ...barry could scarcely have been received with more coldness and resentment... ...that now followed him in town and country. his friends fell away from him. a legend arose of his cruelty to his stepson. now all the bills came down on him together. all the bills he had been contracting for the years of his marriage... ...and which the creditors sent in with a hasty unanimity. their amount was frightful. barry was now bound up in an inextricable toil of bills and debts... ...of mortgages and insurances, and all the evils attendant upon them. lady lyndon's income was hampered almost irretrievably... ...to satisfy these claims. [somber classical melody continues, background] do you think that's good? excellent. who's this? it's a peacock on the wall. what's it say? i saw this bird yesterday. barry: who's that? bryan: mama in her coach. barry: is she going to london? bryan: i don't know. [barry rallies and huffs playfully] narrator: barry had his faults... ...but no man could say of him that he was not a good and tender father. he loved his son with a blind partiality. he denied him nothing. it is impossible to convey what high hopes he had for the boy... ...and how he indulged in a thousand fond anticipations... ...as to his future success and figure in the world. but fate had determined that he should leave none of his race behind him... ...that he should finish his life... ...poor, lonely... ...and childless. papa. yes, bryan? will you buy me a horse? buy you a horse? yes, papa. but you already have little julia. she's only a pony, i want a real horse. then i can ride with you on the hunt. you think you're big enough for the hunt? oh, yes! jonathan plunkett is only a year older than i am and he rides with his papa. i'll have to think about it. please, say yes. there's nothing i want in the whole world more than a horse. i'll think about it. oh, thank you, papa. thank you! [somber classical melody, background] barry: how much are you asking for him? owner: one hundred guineas. barry: he's a nice little horse, but i don't think he's worth that. seventy-five seems more like the right price. i'll accept eighty guineas, and not a shilling less. five guineas should never keep two gentlemen from their drink. eighty then. done, sir. barry: take the horse to doolan's farm. tell him he needs a bit of breaking in. say it's for master bryan's birthday, and i want it to be a surprise. and remember that yourself. [scattered conversations] [somber classical melody, background] bryan: papa. barry: what is it, lad? bryan: did you buy that horse? barry: what horse is that? bryan: the horse you were going to buy me for my birthday. i know nothing about any horse. but one of the stable boys told nelly you'd already bought it... ...and it was at doolan's farm where mick the groom was breaking it in. bryan: is that true? when is your birthday? next tuesday. well, you'll have to wait till then to find out. then, it's true! oh, thank you, papa. lady lyndon: bryan? yes, mama? promise me you won't ride that horse except with your father. yes, mama, i promise. and i promise you a good flogging... ...if you even go to doolan's farm to see him before your birthday. yes, papa. you understand? yes, papa. you promise me? yes, papa, i promise. all right, eat your food. [knock on door] come in. - good morning, sir. - good morning, reverend. i'm sorry to trouble you, mr. lyndon... ...but i believe master bryan has disobeyed you... ...and stolen away to doolan's farm. on going to his room this morning, i found the bed empty. one of the cooks saw him cross the yard at daybreak. didn't you see him go? he must have passed through my room while i was asleep. [birds chirping] barry: oh, my god! what has happened here? i noticed the lad riding across the field, sir... man: and having trouble with the horse, which was playing up. suddenly the animal plunged and reared, and the poor lad was thrown. [sobbing] oh, bryan, why did you disobey me? i'm sorry, papa. you won't whip me, will you? no, my darling. barry: i won't whip you. take my horse and ride like the devil for doctor broughton. tell him whatever he's doing he must come at once. understand? narrator: the doctors were called. but what does a doctor avail in a contest with the grim, invincible enemy? such as came could only confirm the hopelessness of the poor child's case. he remained with his parents for two days. and a sad comfort it was to know that he was in no pain. [melancholic classical melody, background] papa. am i going to die? no, my darling, you're not going to die. you're going to get better. but i can't feel anything, except in my hands. bryan: does that mean i'm already dead in part of my body? no, my darling, that's where you were hurt by the horse. but you're going to be all right. papa, if i die, will i go to heaven? of course you will, my darling... ...but you're not going to die. bryan: mama, give me your hand. papa, give me your hand. will you both promise me something? [whispers] yes. bryan: promise me never to quarrel so. but to love each other. so that we may meet again, in heaven... ...where bullingdon said quarrelsome people will never go. we promise. bryan: will you tell me the story about the fort? of course. we crept up on the fort. i jumped over the wall first, and my fellows jumped after me. and you should have seen the look... ...on the frenchmen's faces when 23 he-devils, sword and pistol... ...cut and thrust, came tumbling into the fort. in three minutes... ...we left... [barry sobs] [melancholic classical melody, background] runt: "'i am the resurrection and the life,' saith the lord. "'he that believeth in me, though he were dead... "'... yet shall he live. "'and whosoever liveth and believeth in me... "'... shall never die.' "i know that my redeemer liveth... "...and that he shall stand at the latter day upon the earth. "and though after my skin worms destroy this body... "...yet in my flesh shall i see god. "whom i shall see for myself and mine eyes shall behold... "...and not another. "we brought nothing into this world... "...and it is certain we can carry nothing out. runt: "the lord gave, and the lord hath taken away. "blessed is the name of the lord." [somber classical melody continues, background] narrator: barry's grief was inconsolable. such solace as he could find, came only from drink. his mother was the only person who would remain faithful to him in his misfortune. and many a night, when he was unconscious of her attention... ...saw him carried off to bed. "o blessed lord... "...the father of mercies and god of all comforts. "we beseech thee, look down in pity and compassion upon this... runt: "...thy afflicted servant. "thou writest bitter things against her... "...and makest her to possess her former iniquities." narrator: her ladyship, always vapourish and nervous... ...plunged into devotion... ...with so much fervour, that you would have imagined her distracted at times. [ciock ticking softly] narrator: in the doleful conditions which now prevailed at castle hackton... ...management of the household, and of the lyndon estate... ...fell to mrs. barry, whose spirit of order... ...attended to all the details of a great establishment. [knock on door] come in. you wish to see me, madam? mrs. barry: yes, reverend. please sit down. mrs. barry: i have some matters i would like to discuss later... ...but just now would you go to her ladyship... ...and have her sign these papers. yes, madam. reverend runt... ...i need not tell you that the recent tragedy to this family... ...has made the services of a tutor no longer required here. and as we are in considerable difficulty about money... ...i'm afraid i must ask you, with the greatest reluctance... ...to resign your post. madam, i'm sensible to your predicament... ...and you need have no concern about my wages, i can willingly forego them... ...but it is out of the question for me to leave her ladyship in her present state. i'm sorry to say this to you... ...but i believe you are largely responsible for her present state of mind. the sooner you leave, the better she will be. madam, with the greatest respect... ...i take my instructions only from her ladyship. reverend runt... ...her ladyship is in no fit mind to give instructions to anyone. my son has charged me with managing the affairs at castle hackton... ...until he recovers from his grief and resumes his interest in worldly matters. while i'm in charge... ...you'll take your instructions from me. mrs. barry: my only concern is for lady lyndon. madam... ...your only concern is for her ladyship's signature. you and your son have almost succeeded in destroying a fine family fortune. and what little remains for you... ...depends on keeping her ladyship prisoner in her own home. reverend runt... ...this matter bears no further discussion. you will pack your bags and leave by tomorrow. [lady lyndon wails] lady lyndon: god, help. help! narrator: in the midst of these great perplexities... ...her ladyship made an attempt to kill herself by taking poison. though she only made herself dangerously ill... ...due to the very small amount which she swallowed... ...this, nevertheless, caused an intervention from a certain quarter... ...which was long overdue. oh, my god! bullingdon: if my mother had died... ...it would've been as much my responsibility... ...as if i had poured the strychnine for her myself. for to the everlasting disgrace of my family name... ...i have, by my cowardice, and by my weakness... ...allowed the barrys to establish a brutal... ...and ignorant tyranny over our lives... ...which has left my mother a broken woman... ...and to squander and ruin a fine family fortune. my friends profess sympathy, but behind my back... ...i know i am despised. and quite justifiably so. however... ...i know now what i must do. and what i shall do. whatever be the cost. receptionist: good morning, my lord. good morning. bullingdon: is mr. barry lyndon here? yes, my lord, he's inside. [dramatic instrumental beat, background] [cane raps] mr. redmond barry. the last occasion on which we met... ...you wantonly caused me injury and dishonour. in such a manner, and to such an extent no gentleman can willingly suffer... ...without demanding satisfaction... ...however much time intervenes. i have now come to claim that satisfaction. [dramatic instrumental beat continues, background] mr. lyndon... ...these are a matched pair of pistols, and as you have seen... ...your second has loaded one, and i have loaded the other. as they belong to lord bullingdon, you may have whichever one you wish. sir richard: lord bullingdon. [dramatic instrumental beat continues, background] now, gentlemen, to determine who will have first fire... ...i will toss a coin in the air. as the offended party, it is lord bullingdon's choice to call the toss. is that agreeable to both of you? yes. if lord bullingdon calls correctly he will have the first fire. if incorrectly, mr. lyndon will have the first fire. is that clearly understood? sir richard: what is your call, lord bullingdon? heads. sir richard: it is heads. lord bullingdon will have the first fire. lord bullingdon... ...will you take your ground? one... two... three... ...four... five... six... ...seven... eight... nine... ten. sir richard: mr. lyndon, will you take your ground? sir richard: are you ready to receive lord bullingdon's fire? yes. lord bullingdon... ...cock your pistol... ...and prepare to fire. [dramatic instrumental beat continues, background] sir richard, this pistol must be faulty. bullingdon: i must have another one. i'm sorry, lord bullingdon, but you must first stand your ground... ...and allow mr. lyndon his turn to fire. sir richard: that is correct, lord bullingdon. your pistol has fired, and that counts as your shot. sir richard: mr. lyndon, are the rules of firing clear to you? yes. lord bullingdon... ...are you ready to receive mr. lyndon's fire? [gasps] yes. sir richard: very well, then. mr. lyndon... ...cock your pistol... ...and prepare to fire. [bullingdon vomits] [bullingdon gasps] are you ready, lord bullingdon? sir richard: is your pistol cocked, mr. lyndon? yes. then prepare to fire. one... ...two... [gunshot] lord bullingdon, in view of mr. lyndon having fired into the ground... ...do you now consider that you have received satisfaction? [dramatic instrumental beat continues, background] i have not received satisfaction. sir richard: mr. lyndon, are you ready? [whispers] yes. sir richard: lord bullingdon... ...cock your pistol and get ready to fire. one... ...two... [barry groans] [church bells ring] narrator: barry was carried to an inn nearby and a surgeon was called. [barry gasps] i'm nearly finished. [barry gasps] i'm sorry to have to tell you this, mr. lyndon. i'm afraid you'll have to lose the leg... ...most likely below the knee. lose the leg? what for? the simple answer is to save your life. the ball has shattered the bone below the knee and severed the artery. unless i amputate, there's no way that i can repair the artery... ...and stop the hemorrhage. [gasps] [church bells ring in distance] graham. yes, my lord? when we arrive at castle hackton, inform mrs. barry of what has happened. don't go into any unnecessary detail. just tell her where he is and that he has been wounded in the leg. she will want to go to him. see that she is out of the house and on her way to london as soon as possible. and in no event... ...is she to be allowed to see my mother... ...or create any disturbance at the house before she leaves. graham: yes, my lord. [somber classical melody, background] [knock on door] [graham gasps] mrs. barry, how do you do? mrs. barry: how nice to see you, graham. come in. thank you. you... received my note? yes, we were expecting you. oh, good, i didn't want to call unannounced. mr. lyndon, how are you feeling? i'm feeling much better, thank you, graham. won't you sit down? thank you, mrs. barry. would you like some tea? oh, no! no, thank you, mrs. barry. not just now. how's the world treating you, graham? graham: oh, not too bad. graham: are you comfortable here? most comfortable. good, good! shall we get down to the matter at hand? by all means. graham: mr. lyndon... ...lord bullingdon has instructed me... ...to offer you an annuity... ...of 500 guineas a year for life. specifically on the condition of your... ...leaving england... ...and to be stopped... ...the instant of your return. lord bullingdon has also asked me to point out to you... ...that should you decide to remain here... ...your stay would infallibly plunge you... ...into jail. as in view of the present circumstances there will soon be... ...innumerable writs taken out against you for... ...debts long-outstanding... ...and your credit is so blown that... ...you could not hope... ...to raise a shilling. [somber instrumental melody, background] narrator: utterly baffled and beaten... ...what was the lonely and broken-hearted man to do? he took the annuity and returned to ireland with his mother... ...to complete his recovery. sometime later he travelled abroad. his life there, we have not the means of following accurately. he appears to have resumed his former profession of a gambler... ...without his former success. he never saw lady lyndon again. [somber classical melody continues, background] [somber classical melody continues, background] subtitles : filou ;-)