the emigrants "this is a story of a group of people who emigrated to north america from their homes in ljuder parish in the swedish province of småland. in 1844, the parish of ljuder had 1,925 inhabitants. the population had tripled in a hundred years. besides 254 landed farmers and tenant farmers, there were 39 artisans, 92 landless peasants, and 11 enlisted soldiers. there were also 274 farmhands, 127 paupers, 60 cripples, five halfwits, three idiots, three whores, and two thieves. four men governed the parish by virtue of their spiritual and temporal offices: brusander the dean, lönnegren the sheriff, paul rudeborg, landowner, lieutenant, and knight, and per persson, churchwarden and storekeeper. it was the same in all other parishes at the time. let each and every man obey the authorities above him, for there is no authority but of god. the powers that be have been ordained by god. whosoever therefore resisteth the authorities resisteth the ordinance of god, and they that resist shall receive to themselves damnation. for those who have authority strike fear in the hearts not of those who do good but of those who do evil. wouldst thou not be afraid of those in power? then do that which is good, and thou shalt have praise of the same. for they are servants of god and work for thy welfare. amen." i'll have more salted herring. have some bread. you can't just eat fish. is it good? yes. she salted it last week. how long were you a farmhand, father, before you took over here? twelve years. but those 12 years weren't all in ålarum? no, they weren't. it's no kingdom you're taking over, son, but it's twice as much land as i took on 25 years ago. but if you're going to be a farmer, you'll need a woman too. i figure i can get a good one if i want. don't brag like that, son. kristina! eat now. if only we had a horse, but the land can't feed one. you've tilled all the tillable land. hard as we try, we can't improve our lot. "by the sweat of thy brow must thou earn thy bread." that doesn't guarantee you anything to eat. do you have money for the mortgage? we're 22 riksdaler short. kristina thinks i can borrow from her uncle in kärragärde. you can borrow from me. i have to tell robert about the cat. she won't last much longer. something on your mind? snow at the end of april, and heavy snow at that. doesn't bode well for this year's crop. no, it doesn't. when will we sow now? if the crops fail again this year, i don't know what we'll do. we must believe that god will make them grow. believe! if believing helped... we could harvest a hundred bushels of rye by the fall. we break our backs, but we're still losing ground. after four years we still have no oxen, and we're 70 riksdaler deeper in debt. grant us suitable weather... and preserve the earth's bounty from ruin of every kind. bless us with barley and grain. through jesus christ our lord, amen. karl oskar, we better not. what's wrong? i'm thinking of the children. they're all asleep. i mean... i was thinking about food for the children. food? i mean, maybe we shouldn't. then there wouldn't be any more. "maybe we shouldn't"? for the rest of our lives? are we to stay away from each other forever? i could never do that... not until i'm so old that moss grows out of my ears. can't you work for your food and clothing? you're 15 now, aren't you? you're strong and healthy. - you can't stay here any longer. - it's high time you worked. karl oskar has enough mouths to feed. shame on you! your sister's been a farm servant for years and has never complained. what's that book? natural sciences. the schoolmaster gave it to me. rinaldo said he was good at reading. he always said everyone should read the bible and natural sciences. this tells you all there is to know about the world. it tells you about the body, about water. listen: "you can hold wood or rock in your hand... but you can't do that with water. for water is fluid and follows its own course. all fluid things like water, ale, beer, or milk can form drops and are called liquids, because they're wet." well, if it isn't our little farmhand! didn't find your way to nybacken this morning, did you! stop. you deserve a good thrashing, but this time i'll let you off with a box to the ears. bedbugs. i'll teach you to hurry it up! aren't you going to teach robert too, arvid? will you and the heifer see the pastor soon to announce your engagement? "notable grasses found abroad include sugarcane, which grows six feet high and as thick as a man's arm." read about rice again. "rice is a cereal cultivated in unbelievable abundance in warmer countries. the shelled grains are brought here as well, where they're cooked in milk to make our tasty white sweet porridge. the best rice comes from beyond the ocean, from carolina in north america." how wide is the ocean? it's all the fault of the lord's weather. don't blaspheme, karl oskar. is this hay or cat's hair? you took all the rest. you can take this too. you're blaspheming! may god forgive you. may god forgive you. what's that you found? will we die too? yes. when, father? not for a long time. if it doesn't rain soon, we'll have no milk. remember all the vole hills we had last year? where'd you get that? aron's keg. i usually take part of my wages in liquor. aron said there'll be a catechism meeting here next week. last year the dean asked who our lords and masters were, but i couldn't answer. "our lords and masters are all those, together with our parents, whom god has given fatherly dominion over us, such as authorities, teachers, and governors." lord a-mercy! you know how many lords and masters we have in all the world? no. first there's the king, oscar i. second is the county governor. third is the chief constable. fourth and fifth are sheriff lönnegren and his deputy. sixth is our dean. and seventh is aron, our master. lord a-mercy! what a heap of masters! you know it now in case they ask next time? first... is the king. what was his name? - oscar i. then there's — the county governor. the county governor. then comes the chief constable? then there's the dean. king oscar i. then comes... the county governor... arvid, what are you doing up? chopping wood in the middle of the night? the old lady will die tonight. put the axe down. i'll kill the old crone! you're out of your mind! put that down! i'll split her snout, the old bitch! listen to me! let go! listen to me! you'll just get in trouble! you don't know what you're doing! - let go, i said! let go! come inside now. you know what they accuse me of? yes. it's not true. that old bitch made it all up. i've never done anything unlawful with the heifer. i believe you. i've never believed what they accuse you of. - know what they call me? - no. the bull of nybacken. no wonder none of the girls wants anything to do with me. arvid... i have a secret... and you're the only one i'm going to tell. can i trust you? you can't say a word to anyone. i'll keep mum, even if they cut my head off. i'm going to run away. run away? in the fall, when they drive the timber to karlshamn. i'll catch a ship there that sails to america. will you come with me? will you come? - yes. look at this. "description of the united states of north america, along with information and advice for emigrants." in america they're not divided into gentry and commoners, like here. you can even address the president informally. the best rice comes from carolina in north america. and salted herring is absolutely forbidden as food. "in america no one works more than 12 hours a day. many slaves have better dwellings, food, clothing, and working conditions than most peasants in europe. they have their own hens and pigs and can grow what they like and sell the yield for their own profit." i'll sell myself as a slave there. it's forbidden for white folk to do that. forbidden? you just said america's a free country. well, that trade is forbidden for white folk. i'll go with you all the same. how much is passage? about 200 riksdaler. jesus! two hundred riksdaler! i'll never scrape that together. - you won't? we forgot: we can go overland! no, you can't walk to america. isn't there any way? no, it can't be done. america's an island. goddamn ocean! last year the crops rotted. this year they're burning up. this might get us through christmas, but what do we make bread from then? when will we die, mother? nobody knows. only god. father said we're all going to die. a few drops. maybe we'll get a shower after all. no, don't do that. the barn's on fire! it set fire to the barn! you got your way. that was your punishment. there was nothing we could do. that bit of rain didn't help. playing dollhouse, my little friend? dodging work are you, you lazy devil! what's wrong? what is it? my ear hurts bad. what am i going to do? we can try some liquor on a wad of wool. it will sting at first, but it'll pass quickly. there. it's a little better. but it's still roaring. it sounds like a whole ocean in there. can you hear it? no. you're back already? karl oskar? what is it? i broke the plow on a huge goddamn rock. the earth here is cursed. there's no need to swear and blaspheme. it's not like you. you can fix the plow, can't you? everything goes wrong no matter how we break our backs. and there are more and more of us. we must leave our worries to god. i'm not sure he'll feed the children if we sit twiddling our thumbs. is it god's duty to feed all the children you're the cause of? what do you mean? i mean you shouldn't blame the lord when you make your wife pregnant. but darling... i've never denied that i have a share in that. you complain that there are more and more of us as if it were my fault! i've never blamed you! when you never say a word to me, what am i to think? surely you know that you and the children mean the world to me. do you care about me the way you used to? of course i do. we have to stick together. we have to help ourselves, because no one else is going to. poor child. what a beating he gave you! come in, karl oskar. look. who did that? - aron. - why? i bumped into a wall yesterday with a load of turnips and broke a bar on the wagon, and he beat me with a fence post. i'm not going back. aron won't let him go just like that. he was hired for the year. aron will send for the sheriff. i'm not going back. you don't have to. no one in our family has to take a flogging. we're just as good as aron. wouldn't it be better to patch things up with aron? i'll go talk to him. you stay here. come in your brother's place, have you? now i have a proper farmhand. you can find another farmhand to beat. you're not getting any more from my family. the sheriff will bring him back. let me go! come get him yourself. you're welcome to come to korpamoen. i'm looking for your brother, the farmhand robert nilsson. he's not here. if your brother stays here in my district, i'll get him. go inside now. ...and everything's left for me to do. you said you'd handle it. now i'll have to do it myself. well, answer! shut your trap! i've had enough of your nagging! goddamn bitch! you could help now and then, but you never do. you hear me? i'm sick and tired of you! shut up! shut your mouth, you old witch! hell and damnation! the devil take her! lönnegren's a decent guy all the same. i could see his point. you can stay with kristina's parents at duvemåla for now. that's outside lönnegren's district. we can think up something later. you're kind, karl oskar. now i have something else to ask of you. sure, if i can give it to you. i want to take out my share in the farm. i'm going to north america. surprised you, didn't i? i never dreamed you had the same idea as me. look at this. it's a wheat field in — a wheat field in north america. "hardworking farmers have excellent prospects in the united states of north america." what do you think? we may have to work just as hard as here... but there we can prosper from our work, which we can't do here, no matter how we try. look at father. and what's to become of the children here? johan can take over the farm, but what about the others? farmhands, or peasants with no land. will you take responsibility for taking them across the ocean... and putting their lives in danger? if only someone else had gone before us, but no one from around here has. then i'll have to be the first. you'll take that responsibility? someone has to... in all things. interrogation of farmer danjel andreasson do you admit, danjel andreasson, that the following persons lodge in your house: soldier severius pihl, dishonorably discharged, handicapped servant girl sissa svensdotter, and spinster ulrika of västergöhl and her illegitimate daughter elin, and that you conduct meetings in your home with your house folk and neighbors? that is true, dean. what do you do at these meetings? i do what the clergy do not do. i preach the true word of god. it's the devil whispering answers in your ear! in the presence of these upright and trusted men, i hereby forbid you to concern yourself with anything pertaining to the ministry! you have no power to forbid me. do you acknowledge that my authority comes from god? no, dean. do you refuse to obey law and order? there is no law over the righteous. are you filled with such spiritual pride that you call yourself righteous? i'm filled with god's spirit. the guiding precepts for my conduct are the bible and the dictates of my conscience. is it true you have accused me of leading souls astray and leading them headlong into hell? yes, sir. is it not true that you sell liquor from the parsonage distillery? it's my lawful right as owner of the farm. when people get drunk on your liquor and commit violence, fornication, and other offenses against god's commandments, do not those who thus break god's commandments incur hellfire? you have been summoned for questioning, not me! in the presence of these witnesses, i forbid you to trespass upon the holy ministry. should you persist in this criminal practice, you can be tried by a court of law, fined, and imprisoned on bread and water, and, upon a third offense, banished from the kingdom for two years! but you cannot for one moment banish me from god's kingdom. "despite the warning, danjel andreasson continued his unlawful preaching. dean brusander therefore invoked church discipline against him and banished him from the lord's holy communion and the fellowship of the church." may the body of christ that you are about to receive preserve thee unto everlasting life. may the blood of christ that you are about to receive preserve thee unto everlasting life. may the body of christ that you are about to receive preserve thee unto everlasting life. may the blood of christ that you are about to receive — danjel dear, don't open it! our lord jesus christ is with us. we have nothing to fear. who is it that disturbs the peace of our house at night? sheriff lönnegren. open up! whom do you seek in my house at this late hour? you yourself, danjel andreasson. in the name of the law, i order you to open this door. i do not obey the law of man that you mention. if you won't open the door, it's my duty to break it down. then i will spare you from adding to your burden of guilt by committing violence in the presence of the lord. what are these folk doing here in the middle of the night? we are gathered for a love feast. poor misguided souls! you defile the holy sacrament! we are partaking of the blessed sacraments. you can see he's administering holy communion to these creatures. we are all witnesses to his criminal conduct. did you administer the sacrament to these persons? not yet to all. you interrupted us. but you know no one may give communion unless ordained. - i know no such thing. - the dean told you so. i obey the holy scriptures, not the dean. nowhere in the bible does it say that our lord jesus christ was ordained. don't argue with this hairsplitter! take down the names of all those present. i forbade you once to concern yourself with matters belonging to the ministry. you will now suffer the full force of the law. but i beg you all once again to consider your immortal souls. if you repent of your errors, i will receive you back into the church. away with all of you! you darken the room, standing there black and evil as satan himself! i see that your heart remains unchastened, yet you take christ's blood to your unclean lips! i'm not afraid of you, you pot-bellied parson! - you'd insult the dean, ulrika? - mind yourself... or i'll insult you too! you should wash your mouth out before addressing the clergy. with vicarage liquor or parson's piss, eh? - hold your tongue, you old whore! - did you say whore? if i'm a whore, per persson, then you're a whoremonger! remember when you came to me with money in one hand and your prick in the other? when you told me to lie on my back? you were very amenable then! but that filthy whoremonger isn't forbidden communion in church! no! because he's friends with the pot-bellied parsons, those lazy lumps of lard wallowing in their own fat! in virtue of your office, i think you should disperse this assembly and dismiss those present. and i strictly forbid you to continue giving holy communion at this table. you cannot turn the lord jesus out of my house. you think your ramblings are revelations from god, but they're from the devil! get out of here, bloated lovers of the flesh! in silence must i endure accusations and walk on in innocence forgiving and forgetting sure in the knowledge that god will judge aright "sentences handed down in the spring of 1849: for danjel andreasson, a fine of 200 silver riksdaler. for the others at the meeting, a fine of 100 silver riksdaler or 28 days imprisonment on bread and water." may the body of christ that you are about to receive preserve thee unto everlasting life. can i have some porridge? not now. you'll have some this evening, after your brother's baptism. i want some porridge. you can't have any! go see granny. you'll have porridge this evening, when company comes and we baptize the little lad. those children are here again. poor wretches. they won't find much. anna! what are you — outside now! shame on you! go outside! it's a shame to send them here. they should keep them at home. we have no more than they have. you can't eat that. mother can make soup from it. soup! no, take this. run home now. father's little helper is here, eh? aren't you cold? run back to mother now. anna! little one. you'll be all right soon. i'll wipe your face. did you stuff your tummy? her stomach's all swollen. shouldn't we send for berta in idemo? let's see how our little girl is. she's very sick. the grain in the porridge has swollen up to twice its size. her stomach may have burst, in which case there's nothing i can do. we'll have to see how she is in the morning, whether she's taken a turn for the better. if not, i'm afraid god will take her home to him. yes, i'm afraid so. but let's hope she'll get better. you never know what might happen. you've been choosing timber all day. why don't you let me make the coffin? why don't you let me put it together? i'm not against moving to america anymore. don't touch the wash with your filthy fingers. leave it alone. don't get it dirty now that it's clean. we'd better take this with us too. grandpa can keep that one. "on tracks like these you travel at great speed — 10-20 miles an hour, and even faster. many large carriages are coupled together and pulled along by a steam engine. strong wooden crossbeams are laid on the road, and to these are fastened strong iron rails, which serve to guide the carriages. each carriage is furnished so comfortably that it makes disembarking unnecessary, even on long journeys. these railroads, which with the aid of steam allow one to enjoy a comfortable and exciting journey, now cover a distance of 8,000 miles in america." you can gather enough winter fodder for a cow in two days, and for a horse in three. i'm wondering about those railroads. if they lie out on the ground unguarded night and day, doesn't the iron get stolen? no, they have so much iron there that no one bothers to steal so much as a filing. it's the same with gold and silver. in america they hang a thief straight off... usually before he's had time to confess. americans are the most honest and upright people in the world. i expect they have a few bastards there too. - you're taking a lot of folk. - there'll be six of us. there'll be more. you'll have more descendants than you know. and you never asked your children's or grandchildren's opinion. - i'm thinking of my children. - and i'm thinking of mine. ever since you could unbutton your britches to piss, you've never asked your parents for advice or help. and one shouldn't give unsolicited advice. does your ear hurt? it'll be better once we get to america. i read in the paper yesterday about a man who got home and found his whole family had been eaten by a crocodile. it had eaten three children and just swallowed his wife, but her head got stuck in its throat, so it choked to death. that was her revenge. the ground all around was soaked in human blood. are we going to those parts? you should know robert's imagination by now. it's not my imagination. i read it. could it be the sheriff? who is it? it's uncle danjel. may i come in? god's peace on your house. - something wrong at home? no, all is well with my wife and children. what is it, then? what is it? i have a message for you, karl oskar. from whom? from god. the lord woke me tonight and said... "go to karl oskar at korpamoen, husband to thy dear niece." he spoke to me as he once spoke to abraham. he said... "go forth from thy fatherland and from thy kindred, and from thy father's house, unto a land that i will show thee. go to karl oskar at korpamoen. he shall help thee." are you coming to america with us, uncle? we are living in a time of persecution in the land of my fathers. i'm prevented from serving my god. i've been banished from the land. but the lord will open a new land to me. we shall go there together, and none of us shall know fear. so there would be six of you, right? eight... counting children and household. you're taking your lodgers too? yes, ulrika and her girl are coming. i promised them. would you have use for a farmhand, uncle? i would indeed. the last one ran off when the persecution started. i know one who'd be a great help in america. his name's arvid. we shall place everything in god's hands. he will aid us with all his mighty power to make it across the perilous sea. you'll set a bad example for my other parishioners, karl oskar nilsson. you're seen as an energetic and hardworking farmer. surely you can support yourself in your native district. it seems i can't, dean. you have the bare necessities for your household. man should be content with the bare necessities. have you given sufficient thought to this adventure that you and your family are setting off on? do you know the truth about the country that so beckons to you? are you sure you haven't been misled? or tricked by fantasies and delusions? this could be the ruin of you and yours, and i therefore advise against it. you do know i'm thinking of your welfare? i'm sure you mean well, sir. at least think of your parents. your father is a cripple. the old folks are taken care of. you're possessed by a spirit of discontent and blinded by lies — i've sold everything off and am now free. perhaps i could have my business settled now? you shall have your permit to emigrate. now i pray god to bless you and yours on your voyage to this faraway land. may you never have cause to regret your bold decision. my humble thanks, dean. mother! that's enough! - that's enough. - what? a little more! no. aren't we going soon? who knows what trash they wear on their feet in america, but i needn't be ashamed of showing these there. they weren't cheap. who'd have thought so many would emigrate all at once? and now jonas petter too. there's something i have to tell you. i'm in that way again. i see. it couldn't come at a more inopportune time. what? i mean it's awkward, coming just now. i can't be with child when it suits you! don't take it like that. it's not my fault alone! it's yours too! more than mine! you come to me at the "inopportune" time! why are you getting so upset? you're afraid i'll be a burden! i never said that! i'm just afraid it will make it harder for you now. we have to stick together or we'll never make it. let's be friends this last evening at home, all right? yes, of course. i'm just not well. i know, i know. you must speak gently to me. no harsh words, i promise. go slowly through the gate! lucky you're so slender, or i'd have to run alongside. arvid, when we get to karlshamn, i'm going to buy a book for learning english. i figure i can learn it during the voyage. you can borrow it if you like. - i don't need it. you can't speak english, can you? not yet, but when i step ashore in america, i'll be able to. you'll speak it properly the minute you set foot ashore? yes. who said so? uncle danjel. you have to learn it, because you're not living in the spirit, but the rest of us needn't. - can that really be true? - you think danjel tells lies? no. when we go ashore, the faithful will be filled with the holy ghost, just like the apostles at pentecost. and all who are reborn in jesus christ will speak american fluently the moment they step ashore. you never read the acts of the apostles? sure... but i've never heard of being filled with the holy ghost like that. robert... i'm afraid of america. afraid? why? maybe they're mean to newcomers there. no. you needn't be afraid. they have so few women in america that they treat them like gold and precious stones. you'll be pampered like a baby and given anything you want. ...they have a steam wagon that pulls everything, and so that the wagons in back don't slip off, they attach hooks — the peace of god be with you! well, the vicar lay there with his rod sticking up as stiff as a church candle. they couldn't bury him like that, so they called in all the other churchmen. dean stenmark himself was there. they read over him, but it wouldn't go down. satan wouldn't leave his body. it just stayed that way. well, along came his old housekeeper, magda, and asked if she could have a try, so they let her in where the body was kept. she was in there all night, and in the morning there he lay just like all other men who are to be buried. i wonder if we'll be seasick on the ship. it's not so bad. you just throw up a bit. like when you're in the family way. they say it's so painful. don't you remember what i said, inga-lena? have you forgotten what i told you? - of course not, danjel dear. those who have christ within them need not fear that sickness. they can bear the sea, even if they're not used to it. i believe you. i'm not afraid. you don't think you'll get seasick like everyone else? no, karl oskar. our lord jesus christ died on the cross for my sins. you're a doubter, karl oskar. i've heard that married women get seasick more than other women. not if they live in the spirit, jonas petter. but most women live in the flesh. they can spawn bastards even in the marriage bed. but aren't scurvy and cholera worse than seasickness? - what are they? - i heard that — let us give thanks to god on this first day of our journey. we thank thee, lord, for holding thy hand over us on this first day of our journey. intermission johan! - where are our berths? - [ speaking danish ] let's see. you and you... come away from there. - karl oskar! - coming! here? i want a berth with my family. i don't understand what you're saying. may i speak to the captain? the beasts in my barn have more room. it's just greed. passengers and cargo nice to get some fresh air. sure is. i counted 16. me too. - shall we pace her out? - sure. so far and no further. we're not allowed any further. - how many did you count? - thirty-six. me too. what if the sea rises? we'll all drown. no. if the sea rises, so does the ship. how many are there of you? don't all come running. one person per family. they keep popping out babies, these people! come here. and bring something to carry the food in. you can't just jump in line. that's enough. - don't we get any potatoes? - there are none. no milk either? we don't have goats on board. i don't want to be on the boat. i want to be home. we don't get any potatoes. they don't have any. they gave us pickled cabbage instead. - no milk either? - no, not for the whole voyage. it reeks of piss here! you need a clothespin for your nose. - when can we use the galley? - not for a while. it's more crowded down here than church on christmas morning. - little märta's forehead is so hot. - is it? - she won't eat anything. - how are you, little one? you think she caught something from that girl over there? no. i expect it's just a cold. that girl has quinsy. she's so close to us! who? the glad one? why do they call her the glad one? i suppose because she's never sad. if any woman should be sad, it's her. if any woman should weep blood — never mind her. you're right. we have other concerns. i'm so sad you can't stay here with us. you ought to like that. you always loved the swing. we have so little water left, and you can't ask the mate for more. he doesn't like you. you can have some of our water. we don't use much. thanks very much. where are you folks bound for? we don't quite know yet. what about you? - we have a son in minnesota. - is it good farming land there? - very good. our son has a hundred acres. you don't say. he's a clever lad. he wrote that he has a hundred acres. we're bringing him a grindstone as a present. they're very expensive in america. is that so? i'm in a bad way myself. got a bad heart. it stops in the morning, but a pinch or two of snuff gets it going again. it's a real bother... this thing is. but it starts up again. "the lips move very little and are neither rounded nor thrust forward. it's especially important not to thrust the lips forward... particularly when making the difficult sh-sound." understand? i'll show you. you mustn't do that. i don't stick my lips out like that when i speak swedish either. make the sh-sound in swedish. "seasick." don't stick your lips out so far. say it again. that's good. it won't hurt you to learn a bit of english now. then, when you go ashore in america, you'll have helped out the holy ghost a bit. that can't be a sin. say... shine... shall... shoot. you have to learn the right tongue position too. stick your tongue out so i can see. no, i don't think you'll have any trouble learning english. elin, come here. come help out here. ...it began to bleed, and he passed out. but she'd already prepared a decoction of wild rosemary and bloodroot. she stopped the bleeding, and when he came to, it had stopped. he became a bit slow and dimwitted, but devoted to her all the same. she saved what she had cut off and dried it and took it out sometimes for company on special occasions and such. they say he still had a bit left, and that's why they called him stumpy. and that's as true as i sit here. this is the life. no goddamn farmer waking you up in the middle of the night to feed the horses. and plenty of food too, so your belly's good and full. i'm damned lucky i came along. i'll go ask how much further it is. how much further to north america? it's as far from here to there as from there to here, with a difference of about 50 miles. you goddamn sheep's cunt! we peasants are no more stupid than folks like you that sail the sea. what's wrong? you're not sick, are you? i'm covered in lice! dear god in heaven! don't look at me! it's so awful! darling, don't cry. i've never had a single louse in my whole life. we've always been so clean, and i come out here to sea and get them! don't take it so hard. you didn't bring them. you must have caught them from another passenger. it's you, you old whore! you've given us all lice! all your men have spread your vermin all around the parish. now you'd spread them to america too? so your wife brought her lice along from home. they couldn't bear to be separated from such a fine woman. admonish your wife, not me! now we're going to have it out, kristina of korpamoen! you accuse me of infesting this ship. you accuse me of having vermin! danjel, she's reviled the body of christ and his pure, innocent lamb. hold your peace, women. she accuses me when she herself is full of lice. get down on your knees and apologize! i'd sooner kneel before satan himself! you hear that? she blasphemes! quiet, both of you! enough quarreling. ever since i was born again, i've been free of lice. i'll undress to my bare skin. no one will find a louse on me. have you no shame? you disgrace the very name of woman! you accused me! anyone who likes can look! ulrika, beware! beware of the temptation of pride! your body is the wondrous work of the lord. you mustn't use it to arouse sinful lusts in men. i will clear my name! inga-lena will check my clothes. she'll be my unbiased witness. come, inga-lena. now you've done it. i called her a whore. that's her proper name. you shouldn't say such things about ulrika. well, inga-lena, did you find any lice? no. even a single nit? no. hear that? i'm innocent. kristina shall kneel to me. never! i'd sooner jump in the ocean! down on your knees or i'll scratch your eyes out! i won't have you on this ship! slut! whore! danjel, look. me too. i have... this creature too is part of god's creation. it's been sent as a trial to us... so that we may better ourselves. things must be pretty bad in old sweden when even the lice start emigrating to america. my dear inga-lena... my dear spouse. dear wife, are you seasick? my dear danjel, forgive me. have you lost your faith? have you been listening to the enemy? we're sinking! it's just the storm. settle down. can't you feel that we're sinking? you're just seasick. karl oskar, i can't breathe! you have as much air as i do. be quiet now. in the dark i can't even see where to vomit. i drowned a cat once. it suffered before it died. you think i can be forgiven? don't talk rubbish. i can hear it meowing down there. you're just delirious. dear god, forgive me. i've been an unfaithful servant. let me out! come on, robert. you can't lie here. it can't be good for you, being shut up like a stallion. won't you eat a little? can you give the children something to eat? they get enough to manage. it's good they're well. you'll be well soon too, once the sea calms down. would you like a spoonful of the prince's drops? no. am i hearing things? that young girl died. it wasn't seasickness. it was quinsy. i have to tell you something. what? i'll never set foot in america. no, karl oskar. i've known ever since we came aboard. i won't get out of here alive. you and your notions! seasickness isn't fatal. we'll make port in america, you and me. please! can't you wait a bit longer? he often lies like this in the morning. i have to shake him hard until he wakes up. his heart stops sometimes, but then it starts again. your old man's as dead as he can be. i know what dead folk look like. can't you please wait a bit longer? just one hour! till he starts to smell? just a little while! please! you can't take him! it's my turn now! why aren't we going to live in a house, mother? in america we'll live in a house. it's a poor sort of wife you're taking to america. you'll be fine when we get ashore. märta, come here. come here to mother. come to me. she's so grumpy. what is it, inga-lena? i feel so dizzy. i'm not feeling well. lately i've had blood in my stool. i suppose it's what they call scurvy. you should lie down and let danjel do your chores. he mustn't know. poor man has enough worries. isn't he well either? yes, but he has to settle accounts with god. he's suffering terribly. he could still help out. he needn't always be praying. you mustn't tell anyone... but danjel confessed that he committed the most heinous sin a man can commit. he believed himself free of sin. then he was laid low with seasickness, and since then he's been a changed man. he says there's but one righteous person on board: ulrika. she was spared both vermin and seasickness. he says god has saved the ship for her sake. not ulrika! don't say a word to danjel about this or tell him i'm feeling out of sorts. promise me. good god, kristina! what's happened? i'm so tired. i can't go on. - are you in pain? - no. i'm so tired. it's all the blood you've lost. we have to stop the bleeding. lie still! i don't want mother to bleed anymore. i'll go wake the captain. no, don't leave me. my wife's bleeding to death! you have to do something! change the compress on her forehead every hour. you'll be good to the children, won't you? of course. that's good to hear. you'll have to be both father and mother to them. don't talk like that. do you want anything? no, nothing. a lump of sugar? i've been hiding them for you. you're so kind... but i don't have the strength. kristina. i want — i want to ask... your forgiveness. for what? for wanting to come away. i wanted to too. but i insisted. you wanted to make things better for all of us. you mustn't be sad. so you forgive me? i have nothing to forgive. remember that. i'm glad to hear that. i'm so very fond of you, karl oskar. i always have been. we're the best of friends. yes, we are. we're the best of friends. i'll just sleep a bit now. yes, do. sleep now. you need it. just for a little while. go to sleep, but just don't — just don't — father. mother's stopped bleeding. she's dead. no, she's alive. i think she's going to make it. she died... just now. but you can see for yourself! inga-lena died just now. she never told me she was so badly off. she never complained. dust thou art, and unto dust thou shalt return. jesus christ shall wake thee on the last day. among god's saints in heaven the lord said to you as he said to moses... "thou shalt not enter that land." my dear wife, it was not given to you either to see the new land. you've gone before us to that other harbor. but when i wanted to set out, you answered and said, "wherever you go... there i shall go. wherever you stay, there i shall stay. wherever you die, there i too shall die... and there i shall be buried." you think we'll get there by midsummer? yes, i think so. by then we'll have been at sea for ten weeks. shall we read the english book a bit? if you like. what was it you were to say when you looked for work? "what can you do?" "i am used to farm work." i should practice mine too. "i am the new servant girl." "wash your hands before you handle the food." damn it! why do they think all servant girls have dirty hands in america? i don't know. i suppose because everything's so nice and clean in the new world that they have to ask that of those who've come from the old dirty one. must you throw those away? i can wash and mend them when i get ashore. the sight of these would only upset us there. and i don't want to be embarrassed in front of the americans. they'd see these rags and wonder what sort of people we were. robert! they've sighted america! hold on tight. your turn now. that's it. hop ashore. there's a big boy, going ashore by yourself. what about our cargo? as your interpreter, i'll handle it. look after it while i change currency with the captain. i'll do that. i heard you're coming with us, landberg. it says something about california. it's about ships to california. the mate says every tenth person here is a thief. he says every fifth woman is a whore too. is your ear hurting again? no, it's just roaring. he smells of liquor. come on. are you asleep, kristina? it's moving. it'll be just fine. you'll see. close your eyes and smell. it can't be! eat and drink your fill now. there's plenty. have you ever seen such a beautiful apple? i got it for nothing. let's see, now. for you... and for you. i think america's a good place. we needn't be sorry we came. wait here. i'll go find our places. robert, arvid, this way. we get on over there. the train's starting. hold on. there's no danger. landberg... can't we open a door a bit? they're locked. they'll open them when we stop. it ripped three fingers off his left hand. that's how powerful the steam is when it escapes. suppose it escapes in here? i don't think it will, but if it does — that's some invention! there ain't many back home who've enjoyed such comfort. do they collect the shit to fertilize the crops? remember how we promised to stick together no matter what? - i'll never forget our promise. whatever happens in america, we'll stick together. - what does that cost? - twenty-five cents. is it any good? oh yes. it gives relief for most illnesses — cholera, jaundice, baldness, and others. would you like a painkiller? - please. - here you are. fine money they have! decorated with the heavenly stars. they stand for the first 13 states. something's written under the woman on the throne. it says, "in god we trust." what? you hear that? the creed is written right on their money! it's a good and god-fearing land we've come to. let us praise the lord that we've been allowed to come. aren't you going to eat, uncle? we have nothing left. fresh air! i could do with some. if you don't mind stale bread. thank you. if there are no delays, we'll reach buffalo this time tomorrow. they almost look like the gentry at home. you said people aren't divided into gentry and commoners here in america. i only said they weren't divided into different classes. i expect those are the ones who are well-off. there are two kinds of people in america: those who've been here so long that they've gotten rich, and those so new here they haven't had time to get rich. just think: traveling on the water when they don't have to. i just found out the truth, and you'll answer for it! you deceived us. - what on earth are you accusing me of? you said we had just 250 miles to travel. that's what the ship's captain said. our interpreter says it's 1,500 miles, and he's not one to lie. you lied to us, you goddamn bastard! here we've crossed one ocean after the other, all because we trusted you. are you accusing me? you old har— say it. say the whole word. "you old harlot!" calm down! you're both right. american miles are much shorter than swedish miles. there are six to one swedish mile. you see? if anyone else thinks i've deceived them, step forward. calm down. it was all a mistake. no, i'm going to speak my mind. i didn't ask all of you to come to minnesota. where i'm going concerns my family alone. you can all go settle wherever you goddamn like! calm down. you have no reason to quarrel. shake hands. - you heard what he called me! you called me a liar! shake hands now and make up. shake hands. forget about her. you know we trust you. we're all very grateful to you. i can't bear that woman any longer. we'll part ways with her. but she's part of danjel's family, and she's good with the children. i like her more now that we've arrived. and danjel told me how badly she was treated, sold at auction as a little girl. ulrika's turning plain crazy because she hasn't had a man for so long. she needs a prick rammed up her as far as it will go. you're alone? isn't märta with you? - no. isn't she on board? no. - are you sure? - she was with you! - i thought she was with you. - she's still on shore! märta! karl oskar, what's happened? is märta there? i haven't seen her. have you seen my little girl? she's so little! please! she's not here. you let her out of your sight! she's fallen in the water! where is she? the boat's leaving without us! - we can't leave her behind. - what about the other kids? i'm staying here! please wait! märta is still on shore. we have to look for her! hurry! hurry! she was on the beach playing with shells. she was having such fun that i was afraid she'd never come. what did you say the disease is called? cholera. she just brings it up again. - isn't there anything else? - no. no bread? we'd do well to keep off the ship's fare. it may be where the disease comes from. robert, put this somewhere no one will see it. we have to buy milk! o lord... thou hast said i was to have no other gods before thee. i idolized my daughter. now thou hast taken my idol from me. i thank thee... my lord and savior. respected sir, how can i reach taylors falls? you understand what he's saying? yes. what did he say? something about the weather. the weather! what did you ask him? - how to get to taylors falls. did you understand what he said? something about the weather. i'll ask someone else. - did you say what's in the book? - yes. everything's soaking wet. i've never seen a man so handy in the kitchen. yes, that's the nicest, most kind-hearted man i've ever met. you'd never guess he was a parson. do you know anders månsson? i think it's close. can you ask him? robert, when we get there, i won't go on living with uncle danjel. what will you do? i'll seek a position with a wealthy american family. i don't intend to keep working for karl oskar long either. what will you do? i certainly won't be a farmhand. i'll probably push on west to california. california? what's there? but you have to promise not to tell anyone. promise. i promise. - did i hurt you? - no, it's my ear. it starts up now and then. - is it roaring like before? - your ear is roaring? can i hear it? you can try. can you hear it? we thank thee, o lord, for our daily bread. an alien land has generously opened its gates to us... and we have entered through them to dwell in peace and seek our livelihood. but we'd be lost and wandering like newborn lambs had thou, o lord, not helped us. o everlasting lord from generation to generation from land to land your hand protects the world from harm in the morning the flower opens but it withers before the day's end just like that flower are all the people on the earth surely no one lives there. it's just a barn. can you explain to him? have you no manners, boy? put that gun down! what are you doing with a gun in the barn? i wasn't expecting you. i thought i'd never get here. where's father? is father dead? as dead as all the others at the bottom of the sea. here's our iron pot. one foot got knocked off. you brought our old pot. come inside... all you swedish folk. thank you. it was a long way, but we made it at last. why are you living in the barn? this is my house, mother. this? anders, you wrote that — don't stand there telling your old mother fibs. show me your farm! come inside now. mother. there's a forest over there — a fine and beautiful one. we could put in a road here. two feet of good soil here too. the sun has never shone on fairer ground. no... better farming land you won't find in all creation. it's a mosquito pit here. marshland on both sides. you're never satisfied, karl oskar. we've gone far enough. let's stay here now. there's plenty of room for the three of us. it may be even better further on. we should be grateful to the lord for this place he's shown us. if you're not happy with this spot, you're just plain picky. you said you thought it was even better by the other lake. - by ki-chi-saga? - that's right. ki-chi-saga. i don't know. not many have gone that far in. i've come thousands of miles. i can go a few more to have a look around ki-chi-saga. that way they can see that the land is claimed. the greenest fields lie furthest away. karl oskar nilsson swede digitally restored in 2004 by svensk filmindustri in collaboration with