[muted dialogue] [phone ringing] [people screaming] [sirens wailing] [bomb whistling] man: ♪ captain walker didn't come home his unborn child will never know him ♪ ♪ he's believed to be missing with a number of men ♪ ♪ don't expect to see him again ♪ [crowd cheering] ♪ it's a boy, mrs. walker ♪ ♪ it's a boy ♪ ♪ it's a boy, mrs. walker ♪ ♪ it's a boy ♪ nurse & doctor: ♪ a son ♪ ♪ a son ♪ ♪ a son ♪ ♪ hear the joyful celebrations in the streets ♪ ♪ it's a boy born on this first day of peace ♪ ♪ we've won ♪ ♪ a son ♪ ♪ we've won ♪♪ [airplanes flying past] ♪ i'm your friendly green coat ♪ ♪ and i welcome you to bernie's holiday camp ♪ ♪ one day and you'll be happy ♪ ♪ it's bernie you will thank ♪ ♪ you must be little tommy ♪ ♪ well, call me uncle frank ♪ [whistling] ♪ welcome you too, mrs. walker ♪ tommy: ♪ did you know i had an uncle frank? ♪ you'll always find a helping hand ♪ tommy: ♪ i've never met him ♪ ♪ lookie, mom, a cage of budgies swimming pool and donkey rides ♪ ♪ oh, please ♪ ♪ a camp with the extras ♪ ♪ i'm in chateau number 11 ♪ ♪ it's all free, mom ♪ ♪ when you come to bernie's ♪ ♪ you might think you're in heaven ♪ ♪ here we have the winner, folks ♪ ♪ have you ever seen a lovelier pair? ♪ ♪ what a shapely ankle ♪ ♪ what a perfect shin ♪ ♪ if you could feel this silken thigh ♪ ♪ you'd know who has to win ♪ ♪ if you could feel this silken thigh ♪ ♪ you'd know ♪ ♪ you don't know how much i've missed ♪ ♪ to feel a man again ♪ ♪ to dance, to kiss ♪ ♪ your eyes reveal you're lonely ♪ ♪ this evening must pass slowly ♪ ♪ until we're one ♪ ♪ my heart won't rest ♪ ♪ will tommy share our happiness? ♪ ♪ of course he will i'll make him smile ♪ ♪ you don't know ♪ ♪ i'll take him out to cinemas and fairs ♪ ♪ how much i've missed ♪ ♪ to feel a man again to dance, to kiss ♪ ♪ football and cricket never been a happier lad ♪ ♪ i'll be more than an uncle ♪ ♪ i'll be just like a dad ♪ tommy: ♪ i will be a green coat too ♪ ♪ and when i'm big i'll own a holiday camp ♪ ♪ a camp with a difference ♪ ♪ always be good weather ♪ ♪ when you come to tommy's ♪ ♪ the holiday's forever ♪ ♪ i'm glad you like your uncle frank ♪ ♪ he'll surely love you too ♪ ♪ just like a dad ♪ ♪ he's very nice, i think ♪ ♪ did he fight in the war? ♪ ♪ when he's got his green coat on ♪ ♪ when he's got his green coat on ♪ ♪ i love him even more ♪ ♪ i love him even more ♪♪ ♪ got a feeling '51's going to be a good year ♪ ♪ especially if you and me see it out together ♪ ♪ so you think that '51 ls gonna be a good year ♪ ♪ we'll marry now and see it out together ♪ ♪ i have no reason to be overoptimistic ♪ ♪ but somehow when you smile ♪ ♪ i can brave bad weather ♪ [muted dialogue] ♪ what about the boy? ♪ ♪ what about the boy? ♪ ♪ what about the boy? he saw it all ♪ ♪ you didn't hear it you didn't see it ♪ ♪ you won't say nothin' to no one ever in your life ♪ ♪ you never heard it ♪ ♪ how absurd it all seems without any proof ♪ ♪ you didn't hear it you didn't see it ♪ ♪ you won't say nothin' to no one ever in your life ♪ ♪ you never heard it ♪ ♪ how absurd it all seems without any proof ♪ ♪ you didn't hear it you didn't see it ♪ ♪ you never heard it not a word of it ♪ ♪ you won't say nothin' to no one ♪ ♪ never tell a soul what you know is the truth ♪♪ man: ♪ now he is deaf ♪ ♪ now he is dumb ♪ ♪ now he is blind ♪ ♪ the guilty are safe ♪ ♪ but always accused by his empty eyes ♪ ♪ nothing to say nothing to hear ♪ ♪ and nothing to see ♪ ♪ each sensation makes a note in his symphony ♪ ♪ sickness will surely take the mind ♪ ♪ where minds can't usually go ♪ ♪ come on the amazing journey ♪ ♪ and learn all you should know ♪ ♪ a vague haze of delirium creeps up on him ♪ ♪ soaring and flying images spin ♪ ♪ he is your leader he is your guide ♪ ♪ on the amazing journey together you'll ride ♪ ♪ sickness will surely take the mind ♪ ♪ where minds can't usually go ♪ ♪ come on the amazing journey ♪ ♪ and learn all you should know ♪ ♪ his eyes are the eyes that transmit all they know ♪ ♪ the truth burns so bright it can melt winter snow ♪ ♪ a towering shadow so black and so high ♪ ♪ a white sun burning the earth and the sky ♪♪ tommy. [people chattering] ♪ did you ever see the faces of the children? ♪ ♪ they get so excited ♪ ♪ waking up on christmas morning ♪ ♪ hours before the winter's sun's ignited ♪ ♪ they believe in dreams and all they mean ♪ ♪ including heaven's generosity ♪ ♪ peeping 'round the door to see ♪ ♪ what parcels are for free in curiosity ♪ ♪ and tommy doesn't know what day it is ♪ ♪ he doesn't know who jesus was or what praying is ♪ ♪ how can he be saved ♪ ♪ from the eternal grave? ♪ frank: ♪ tommy, can you hear me? ♪ ♪ tommy, can you hear me? ♪ nora: ♪ tommy? ♪ ♪ tommy, can you hear me? ♪ ♪ tommy, can you hear me? ♪ ♪ can you--? can you hear me? ♪ ♪ tommy, can you hear me? ♪ ♪ how can he be saved? ♪ tommy: ♪ see me ♪ ♪ feel me ♪ ♪ touch me ♪ ♪ heal me ♪ ♪ see me ♪ ♪ feel me ♪ ♪ touch me ♪ ♪ heal me ♪ ♪ tommy, can you hear me? ♪ ♪ tommy, can you hear me? ♪ chorus: ♪ how can he be saved? ♪ ♪ surrounded by his friends he sits so silently ♪ ♪ and unaware of anything ♪ ♪ crazy-eyed he picks his nose he smiles, he cries ♪ ♪ he pokes his tongue at everything ♪ ♪ i believe in love ♪ ♪ but how can men who've never seen light be enlightened? ♪ ♪ only if he's cured ♪ ♪ will his spirit's future level ever heighten ♪ ♪ and tommy doesn't know what day it is ♪ ♪ he doesn't know who jesus was or what praying is ♪ ♪ how can he be saved ♪ ♪ from the eternal grave? ♪♪ ♪ you talk about your woman ♪ ♪ i wish you could see mine ♪ ♪ you talk about your woman ♪ ♪ i wish you could see mine ♪ ♪ every time she starts to love ♪ ♪ she brings eyesight to the blind ♪ ♪ oh, yeah ♪ ♪ you know, her daddy gave her magic ♪ ♪ i can tell by the way she walks ♪ ♪ you know, her daddy gave her magic ♪ ♪ i can tell by the way she walks ♪ ♪ every time she starts to shake ♪ ♪ the dumb begin to talk ♪ ♪ talk, talk, talk ♪ ♪ she's got the power to heal you ♪ ♪ never fear ♪ ♪ she has got the power to heal you ♪ ♪ never fear ♪ ♪ just one word from her lips ♪ ♪ and the deaf can hear ♪ ♪ hey ♪ ♪ she's got the power to heal you ♪ ♪ never fear ♪ ♪ she's got the power to heal you ♪ ♪ never fear ♪ ♪ one word from her lips and the deaf can hear ♪ ♪ oh, yeah ♪♪ acid queen: ♪ if your child ain't all he should be now ♪ ♪ this girl will put him right ♪ ♪ i'll show him what he could be now ♪ ♪ just give me one night ♪ ♪ i'm the gypsy the acid queen ♪ ♪ pay me before i start ♪ ♪ i'm the gypsy and i'm guaranteed ♪ ♪ to mend his aching heart ♪ ♪ give us a room close the door ♪ ♪ leave us for a while ♪ ♪ you won't be a boy no more ♪ ♪ young but not a child ♪ ♪ 'cause i'm the gypsy ♪ ♪ the acid queen ♪ ♪ pay me before i start ♪ ♪ the gypsy i'm guaranteed ♪ ♪ to tear your soul apart ♪ ♪ gather your wits and hold on fast ♪ ♪ your mind must learn to roam ♪ ♪ just as the gypsy queen must do ♪ ♪ you're gonna hit the road ♪ ♪ my work's begun now look at him ♪ ♪ he's never been more alive ♪ ♪ his head it shakes his fingers clutch ♪ ♪ watch his body writhe ♪ ♪ i'm the gypsy the acid queen ♪ ♪ pay me before i start ♪ ♪ i'm the gypsy i'm guaranteed ♪ ♪ to break your little heart ♪ ♪ if your child ain't all he should be now ♪ ♪ this girl will put him right ♪ ♪ i'll show him what he could be now ♪ ♪ just give me one more night ♪ ♪ i'm the gypsy the acid queen ♪ ♪ pay me before i start ♪ ♪ i'm the gypsy i'm guaranteed ♪ ♪ to tear his soul apart ♪♪ [cackling] ♪ do you think it's all right ♪ ♪ to leave the boy with cousin kevin? ♪ ♪ do you think it's all right? ♪ ♪ there's something 'bout him i don't really like ♪ ♪ do you think it's all right? ♪ ♪ i think it's all right yes, i think it's all right ♪ ♪ we're on our own, cousin ♪ ♪ all alone, cousin ♪ ♪ let's think of a game to play ♪ ♪ now the grownups have all gone away ♪ ♪ you won't be much fun being blind, deaf and dumb ♪ ♪ but i've no one to play with today ♪ ♪ do you know how to play hide-and-seek? ♪ ♪ to find me it would take you a week ♪ ♪ but tied to that chair you won't go anywhere ♪ ♪ there's a lot i can do to a freak ♪ ♪ how would you feel ♪ ♪ if i turned on the bath? ♪ ♪ ducked your head under ♪ ♪ and started to laugh? ♪ ♪ maybe a cigarette burn ♪ ♪ on your arm ♪ ♪ would change your expression ♪ ♪ to one of alarm ♪ ♪ i'm the school bully ♪ ♪ the classroom cheat ♪ ♪ the nastiest play friend ♪ ♪ you ever could meet ♪ ♪ i'll put glass in your dinner ♪ ♪ and spikes in your seat ♪ ♪ i'll drag you around ♪ ♪ by a lock of your hair ♪ ♪ and give you a push ♪ ♪ at the top of the stairs ♪ ♪ what would you do ♪ ♪ if i shut you outside ♪ ♪ to stand in the rain ♪ ♪ and catch cold so you die ♪ ♪ i'm the school bully ♪ ♪ the classroom cheat ♪ ♪ the nastiest play friend ♪ ♪ you ever could meet ♪ ♪ i'll stick pins in your fingers ♪ ♪ and tread on your feet ♪ ♪ we're on our own, cousin ♪ ♪ all alone, cousin ♪ ♪ we've thought of some nice games to play ♪ ♪ while the grownups had all gone away ♪ ♪ you weren't too much fun 'cause you're blind, deaf and dumb ♪ ♪ but i'd no one to play with today ♪ ♪ do you think it's all right ♪ ♪ to leave the boy with uncle ernie? ♪ ♪ do you think it's all right? ♪ ♪ he's had a few too many tonight ♪ ♪ do you think it's all right? ♪ ♪ yes, i think it's all right yes, i think it's all right ♪ ♪ i'm your wicked uncle ernie i'm glad you won't see or hear me ♪ ♪ as i fiddle about, fiddle about, fiddle about ♪ ♪ your mother left me here to mind you ♪ ♪ and i'm doing exactly what i bleedin' well want to ♪ ♪ fiddling about, fiddling about, fiddle about ♪ ♪ down with your bedclothes ♪ ♪ up with your nightshirt ♪ ♪ fiddle about, fiddle about, fiddle about ♪ ♪ you won't shite as i fiddle abite ♪ ♪ fiddle abite, fiddle abite fiddle abite ♪ [grunting and mumbling] [thudding] [ernie panting and cackling] [ernie continues cackling] ♪ do you think it's all right ♪ ♪ leaving tommy by the mirror? ♪ ♪ you would think he had sight ♪ ♪ been staring half the night ♪ ♪ do you think it's all right? ♪ ♪ i think it's all right yes, i think it's all right ♪♪ [siren wailing] [people cheering] woman: ♪ extra, extra pinball bonanza ♪ ♪ deaf, dumb and blind kid makes the big game ♪ ♪ saturday, the final he faces the champ ♪ ♪ extra, extra ♪ ♪ pinball, big time a million in hand ♪ ♪ you can rule the world from a yacht in the bay ♪ ♪ champagne flowing you're a popular man ♪ ♪ pinball, let's play ♪ ♪ tommy keeps on winning he's a millionaire ♪ ♪ mama's got a brand-new cadillac ♪ ♪ hurry to the show we're nearly on the air ♪ ♪ extra, extra ♪♪ ♪ ever since i was a young boy i played the silver ball ♪ ♪ from soho down to brighton i must have played them all ♪ ♪ but i ain't seen nothin' like him in any amusement hall ♪ ♪ that deaf, dumb and blind kid sure plays a mean pinball ♪ ♪ he stands like a statue becomes part of the machine ♪ ♪ feelin' all the bumpers always playin' clean ♪ ♪ he plays by intuition the digit counters fall ♪ ♪ that deaf, dumb and blind kid sure plays a mean pinball ♪ ♪ he's a pinball wizard there has to be a twist ♪ ♪ a pinball wizard got such a supple wrist ♪ crowd: ♪ how do you think he does it? ♪ ♪ i don't know ♪ crowd: ♪ what makes him so good? ♪ ♪ well, he ain't got no distractions can't hear no buzzers and bells ♪ ♪ don't see lights a-flashing he plays by sense of smell ♪ ♪ always has a replay never tilts at all ♪ ♪ that deaf, dumb and blind kid sure plays a mean pinball ♪ ♪ he can't beat me now i've always been the champ ♪ ♪ i know every trick ♪ ♪ no freak's gonna beat my hand ♪ ♪ even on my usual table he can beat the best ♪ ♪ his disciples lead him in and he just does the rest ♪ ♪ he's got crazy flipper fingers i've never seen him fall ♪ ♪ that deaf, dumb and blind kid sure plays a mean pinball ♪ ♪ he's a pinball wizard there has to be a twist ♪ ♪ a pinball wizard got such a supple wrist ♪ ♪ he's a pinball wizard he scores a trillion more ♪ ♪ a pinball wizard the world's new pinball lord ♪ ♪ he's scoring more ♪ ♪ he's scoring more ♪ ♪ i thought i was the bally table king ♪ ♪ but i just handed my pinball crown to him ♪ ♪ to him ♪ ♪ to him ♪♪ [music continues playing on tv] chorus: ♪ take one lady totally demanding ♪ ♪ join the banquet at her commanding ♪ ♪ eat no fat and eat no lean ♪ ♪ eat rex beans fit for a queen ♪ ♪ eat no fat and eat no lean ♪ ♪ eat rex beans fit for a queen ♪ ♪ today it rains champagne ♪ ♪ a son was born again ♪ ♪ a genius untamed ♪ ♪ a life of wealth and fame ♪ ♪ wealth and fame ♪ ♪ champagne flowing down just like rain ♪ ♪ caviar breakfasts every day ♪ ♪ merchant banks and yachts at cannes ♪ ♪ servants and cars and private sand ♪ tommy: ♪ see me ♪ ♪ feel me ♪ ♪ touch me ♪ ♪ heal me ♪ ♪ see me ♪ ♪ feel me ♪ ♪ touch me ♪ ♪ heal me ♪ ♪ heal me ♪ ♪ they flock in, thousands strong ♪ ♪ we'll just play along ♪ ♪ a million in reserve ♪ ♪ for a love a just deserve ♪ ♪ just deserve ♪ ♪ francs and dollars and peacock's wings ♪ ♪ sequined gowns and birds that sing ♪ ♪ private planes and fishing lakes ♪ ♪ bigger crowds and bigger, bigger, bigger takes ♪ ♪ but what's it all worth? ♪ ♪ what's it all worth when my son is blind? ♪ ♪ he can't hear the music nor enjoy what i'm buying ♪ ♪ his life is worthless affecting mine ♪ ♪ i'd pay any price ♪ ♪ to drive his plight ♪ ♪ from my mind ♪ tommy: ♪ see me ♪ ♪ feel me ♪ ♪ touch me ♪ ♪ heal me ♪ ♪ see me ♪ ♪ feel me ♪ ♪ touch me ♪ ♪ heal me ♪♪ ♪ there's a man i've found could bring us all joy ♪ ♪ there's a doctor i've found can cure the boy ♪ ♪ a doctor i've found can cure the boy ♪ ♪ there's a man i've found could remove his sorrow ♪ ♪ he lives in this town let's see him tomorrow ♪ ♪ let's see him tomorrow ♪♪ ♪ he seems to be completely unreceptive ♪ ♪ the tests i gave him showed no sense at all ♪ ♪ his eyes react to light the dial's detected ♪ ♪ he hears but cannot answer to your call ♪ tommy: ♪ see me ♪ ♪ feel me ♪ ♪ touch me ♪ ♪ heal me ♪ ♪ see me ♪ ♪ feel me ♪ ♪ touch me ♪ ♪ heal me ♪ ♪ there is no chance no untried operation ♪ ♪ all hope lies with him and none with me ♪ ♪ imagine, though, the shock from isolation ♪ ♪ when he suddenly can hear and speak and see ♪ tommy: ♪ see me ♪ ♪ feel me ♪ ♪ touch me ♪ ♪ heal me ♪ ♪ see me ♪ ♪ feel me ♪ ♪ touch me ♪ ♪ heal me ♪ ♪ his eyes can see his ears can hear, his lips speak ♪ ♪ all the time the needles flick and rock ♪ ♪ no machine can give the kind of stimulation ♪ ♪ needed to remove his inner block ♪ ♪ i often wonder what it is he's feeling ♪ ♪ has he ever heard a word i've said ♪ ♪ look at him now in the mirror, dreaming ♪ ♪ what is happening in his head? ♪ ♪ what is happening in his head? ♪ ♪ what is happening in his head? ♪ frank: ♪ what is happening in his head? ♪ [coughing] ♪ i wish i knew ♪ nora: ♪ i wish i knew ♪ ♪ i wish i knew ♪ nora: ♪ i wish i knew ♪♪ ♪ tommy, can you see me? ♪ ♪ can i hope to cheer you? ♪ ♪ tommy, can you hear me? ♪ ♪ can you feel me near you? ♪ ♪ oh, tommy? ♪ ♪ tommy? ♪ ♪ tommy? ♪ ♪ tommy, can you hear me? ♪ ♪ can you feel me near you? ♪ ♪ oh, tommy, can you see me? ♪ ♪ can i help to cheer you? ♪ ♪ oh, tommy ♪ ♪ tommy ♪ ♪ tommy ♪ ♪ tommy? ♪ ♪ tommy ♪ ♪ tommy ♪ ♪ tommy ♪ ♪ tommy ♪ ♪ tommy ♪♪ ♪ you don't answer my call with even a nod or a twitch ♪ ♪ but you gaze at your own reflection ♪ ♪ you don't seem to see me ♪ ♪ but i think you can see yourself ♪ ♪ how can the mirror affect you? ♪ ♪ can you hear me or do i surmise ♪ ♪ that you fear me can you feel my temper rise ♪ ♪ rise, rise, rise ♪ ♪ rise, rise, rise ♪ ♪ rise, rise, rise ♪ ♪ rise, rise, rise ♪ ♪ do you hear or fear or ♪ ♪ do i smash the mirror? ♪ ♪ do you hear or fear or ♪ ♪ do i smash the mirror? ♪ ♪ i'm free ♪ ♪ i'm free ♪ ♪ and freedom ♪ ♪ tastes of reality ♪ ♪ i'm free ♪ ♪ whoa, i'm free ♪ ♪ and i'm waiting ♪ ♪ for you to follow me ♪ ♪ if i told you what it takes to reach the highest high ♪ ♪ you'd laugh and say nothing's that simple ♪ ♪ but you've been told many times before ♪ ♪ messiah's pointed to the door ♪ ♪ no one had the guts to leave the temple ♪ ♪ i'm free ♪ ♪ i'm free ♪ ♪ and i'm waiting ♪ ♪ for you to follow me ♪ ♪ i'm free ♪ ♪ i'm free ♪ ♪ and i'm waiting ♪ ♪ for you to follow me ♪♪ ♪ tommy, can you hear me? ♪ ♪ tommy, can you hear me? ♪ ♪ tommy, can you hear me? ♪ ♪ tommy, can you hear me? ♪ ♪ tommy? ♪ ♪ tommy? ♪ ♪ tommy? ♪ ♪ tommy? ♪ tommy: ♪ mother ♪ ♪ father ♪ ♪ touch me ♪ ♪ feel me ♪ ♪ who am i? where did i come from? ♪ ♪ have you known me? have you seen me? ♪ ♪ mother ♪ ♪ you're a hero you are famous ♪ ♪ you're a champion of the young ♪ ♪ you are rich but it's so absurd to try ♪ ♪ to explain all the things you've done ♪ ♪ you're adored and you're loved ♪ ♪ thousands watch you play ♪ ♪ pinball it's a fever ♪ ♪ and you're the master of the game ♪ ♪ and now that you're whole ♪ ♪ you'll be champion of their very souls ♪ ♪ yes, i'm healed ♪ ♪ delivered from silent darkness ♪ ♪ no more locked doors or stifled screams ♪ ♪ pinball what i see now before me ♪ ♪ is far beyond a game ♪ ♪ beyond your wildest dreams ♪ ♪ those who love me ♪ ♪ have a higher path to follow now ♪ ♪ and you, dear mother too ♪ ♪ must be prepared ♪♪ chorus: ♪ extra, extra, read all about it ♪ ♪ the pinball wizard in a miracle cure ♪ ♪ extra, extra, read all about it ♪ ♪ extra, extra ♪ ♪ right now, right now story and pictures ♪ ♪ pinball bonanza a mother's joy ♪ ♪ world tours, show times lessons and lectures ♪ ♪ extra, extra ♪♪ man: ♪ outside the house mr. simpson announced ♪ ♪ that sally couldn't go to the meeting ♪ ♪ he went on cleaning his black rolls-royce ♪ ♪ she ran inside weeping ♪ ♪ she got to her room and tears splashed the picture ♪ ♪ of the new messiah ♪ ♪ she picked up a book of her father's life ♪ ♪ and threw it on the fire ♪ ♪ she knew from the start deep down in her heart ♪ ♪ she and tommy were worlds apart ♪ ♪ but her mother said never mind ♪ ♪ your part is to be what you'll be ♪ ♪ the theme of the sermon was come unto me ♪ ♪ love will find a way ♪ ♪ so sally decided to ignore her dad ♪ ♪ and sneak out anyway ♪ ♪ she spent all afternoon getting ready ♪ ♪ decided she'd try to touch him ♪ ♪ maybe he'd see that she was free ♪ ♪ and talk to her this sunday ♪ ♪ she knew from the start deep down in her heart ♪ ♪ she and tommy were worlds apart ♪ ♪ but her mother said never mind ♪ ♪ your part is to be what you'll be ♪ ♪ she arrived at 6 and the place was swinging ♪ ♪ to gospel music by 9 ♪ ♪ group after group appeared on the stage ♪ ♪ but sally just sat there sighing ♪ ♪ she bit her nails looking pretty as a picture ♪ ♪ right in the very front row ♪ ♪ and then one of the faithful came on-stage ♪ ♪ and shouted: ♪ ♪ here we go ♪ ♪ the crowd went crazy ♪ ♪ as tommy hit the stage ♪ ♪ little sally got lost as the police bossed ♪ ♪ the crowd back in a rage ♪ ♪ your happy welcome is like a favor ♪ ♪ i must now return ♪ ♪ the darkness of my childhood passed ♪ ♪ and flames of love now burn ♪ ♪ the pinball game i play so well ♪ ♪ reflects a way of life ♪ ♪ this meeting is just another game ♪ ♪ let's play to win tonight ♪ ♪ she knew from the start deep down in her heart ♪ ♪ she and tommy were worlds apart ♪ ♪ but her mother said never mind ♪ ♪ your part is to be what you'll be ♪ ♪ her cheek hit a chair and blood trickled down ♪ ♪ mingling with her tears ♪ ♪ try to walk the path i walk never mind the pain and fear ♪ ♪ each one of you has freedom ♪ ♪ in your heart without my grace ♪ ♪ let me see you raise your hands ♪ ♪ see joy upon your face ♪ ♪ the crowd went crazy ♪ ♪ as tommy left the stage ♪ ♪ little sally was lost for the price of a touch ♪ ♪ a gash across her face ♪ ♪ her pretty face ♪ ♪ sixteen stitches put her right and her dad said ♪ ♪ don't say i didn't warn ya ♪ ♪ sally got married to a rock musician ♪ ♪ who came from california ♪ ♪ tommy always talks about the day ♪ ♪ the disciples all went wild ♪ ♪ sally still carries the scar on her cheek ♪ ♪ to remind her of his smile ♪ ♪ she knew from the start deep down in her heart ♪ ♪ she and tommy were worlds apart ♪ ♪ but her mother said never mind ♪ ♪ your part is to be what you'll be ♪♪ chorus: ♪ while tommy flies the world is turning ♪ ♪ life goes on for you and me ♪ ♪ our chief concern ls money-earning ♪ ♪ why can't someone set us free? ♪ ♪ can't you feel him? ♪ ♪ can't you feel him? ♪ ♪ can't you feel him? ♪ ♪ can't you feel him? ♪ tommy: ♪ you'll feel me coming ♪ ♪ a new vibration ♪ ♪ from afar you'll see me ♪ ♪ i'm a sensation ♪ ♪ i'm a sensation ♪ ♪ i overwhelm as i approach you ♪ ♪ make your lungs hold breath inside ♪ ♪ grounded angels your wings are broken ♪ ♪ time to mend and learn to fly ♪ ♪ they worship me and all i touch ♪ ♪ hazy-eyed they catch my glance ♪ ♪ pleasant shudders shake their senses ♪ ♪ my warm momentum throws their stance ♪ ♪ you'll feel me coming ♪ ♪ a new vibration ♪ ♪ from afar you'll see me ♪ ♪ i'm a sensation ♪ ♪ i'm a sensation ♪ ♪ soon you'll see me can't you feel me, i'm coming ♪ ♪ send your troubles dancing i know the answer ♪ ♪ i'm coming ♪ ♪ i'm coming ♪ ♪ i'm a sensation ♪ ♪ you'll feel me coming ♪ ♪ a new vibration ♪ ♪ from afar you'll see me ♪ ♪ i'm a sensation ♪ ♪ i'm a sensation ♪ ♪ i leave a trail of rooted people ♪ ♪ mesmerized by just the sight ♪ ♪ the few i touched now are disciples ♪ ♪ love as one i am the light ♪ ♪ i am the light ♪ ♪ come to my house ♪ ♪ be one of the comfortable people ♪ ♪ come to this house ♪ ♪ we're drinking all night never sleeping ♪ ♪ milkman coming ♪ ♪ and you, baker ♪ ♪ little old lady, welcome ♪ ♪ and you, shoemaker ♪ ♪ come to this house ♪ ♪ into this house ♪ ♪ come to this house ♪ ♪ come to this house ♪ ♪ be one of us ♪ ♪ be one of us ♪ ♪ make this your house ♪ ♪ make this your house ♪ ♪ be one of us ♪ ♪ be one of us ♪ ♪ you can help to collect some more in ♪ ♪ young and old people let's get them all in ♪ ♪ come to this house ♪ ♪ into this house ♪ ♪ ask along that man with the big, red carnation ♪ ♪ bring every single person from victoria station ♪ ♪ go into a hospital and bring the nurses and patients ♪ ♪ everyone go home and fetch their relations ♪ chorus: ♪ come to this house ♪ ♪ be one of the comfortable people ♪ ♪ lovely, bright home ♪ ♪ we're drinking all night never sleeping ♪ hold on, tommy. there's more at the door. they'll come through the floor. ♪ there's more at the door ♪ ♪ there's more at the door ♪ ♪ there's more at the door ♪ ♪ there's more at the door ♪ ♪ there's more at the door ♪ ♪ there's more at the door ♪ ♪ there's more at the door there's more ♪ ♪ we need more room ♪ ♪ build an extension ♪ ♪ a colorful palace ♪ ♪ spare no expense, now ♪ ♪ come to me now ♪ ♪ come to me now ♪♪ welcome. welcome. welcome. ♪ he'll raise your weary spirits high ♪ ♪ my son will teach your silent hearts ♪ ♪ to talk ♪ ♪ every home will have his picture ♪ ♪ pilgrims all will touch his hand ♪ ♪ pinball tables gold and silver ♪ ♪ altars to the master's plan ♪ ♪ rio, paris ♪ ♪ new york, london ♪ ♪ moscow, peking, tokyo ♪ ♪ the world! ♪ ♪ a tommy camp in every city ♪ ♪ millions flocking in like sheep ♪ ♪ what they want ain't cheap it's a pity ♪ ♪ but who am i to upset their dreams? ♪ [organ music playing over speakers] ernie: good morning, converts. i'm your brother ernie and i welcome you to tommy's holiday camp. the camp with the difference. never mind the weather. when you come to tommy's, the holiday's forever. welcome. get your tommy t-shirts and your stickers and your tommy mirrors to smash! don't rush. keep steady. have your money ready. buy your way to heaven. that comes to one pound, seven. bless your heart. buy his shades and earplugs here. keep in line. i've got a huge supply. get your tommy records. you can really hear him talk. tommy pics and badges, half a nicker for the cork. keep in line, playmates! you lucky people! the camp with the difference, so never mind the weather. when you come to tommy's, the holiday's forever. chorus: ♪ these pricey deals don't teach us ♪ ♪ your freedom doesn't reach us ♪ ♪ enlightenment escapes us ♪ ♪ awareness doesn't shape us ♪ ♪ how can all this trivia ♪ ♪ take us to the goal you reached? ♪ ♪ we came here to be like you ♪ ♪ and find the world you've reached ♪ ♪ these pricey deals don't teach us ♪ ♪ your freedom doesn't reach us ♪ ♪ enlightenment escapes us ♪ ♪ awareness doesn't shape us ♪ ♪ how can all this trivia ♪ ♪ take us to the goal you reached? ♪ ♪ we came here to be like you ♪ ♪ and find the world you've reached ♪ ♪ welcome to the camp ♪ ♪ i guess you all know why we're here ♪ ♪ my name is tommy ♪ ♪ and i became aware this year ♪ ♪ if you want to follow me ♪ ♪ you've got to play pinball ♪ ♪ and put in your earplugs put on your eyeshades ♪ ♪ you know where to put the cork ♪ ♪ hey, you, gettin' drunk ♪ ♪ so sorry ♪ ♪ i got you sussed ♪ ♪ hey, you, smokin' mother nature ♪ ♪ you missed the bus ♪ ♪ hey, old hung-up mr. normal ♪ ♪ don't try to gain my trust ♪ ♪ 'cause you ain't gonna follow me any of those ways ♪ ♪ although you think you must ♪ ♪ now you can't hear me ♪ ♪ your ears are truly sealed ♪ ♪ you can't speak either ♪ ♪ 'cause your mouth is filled ♪ ♪ you can't see nothin' ♪ ♪ and pinball completes the scene ♪ ♪ here come willing helpers to guide you to ♪ ♪ your very own machine ♪ ♪ we're not gonna take it ♪ ♪ we're not gonna take it ♪ ♪ we're not gonna take it ♪ ♪ we're not gonna take it ♪ ♪ we're not gonna take it ♪ ♪ never did and never will ♪ ♪ we don't have to take it ♪ ♪ gonna break it gonna shake it ♪ ♪ let's forget it better still ♪ ♪ we're not gonna take it ♪ ♪ we're not gonna take it ♪ ♪ we're not gonna take it ♪ ♪ we're not gonna take it ♪ ♪ we're not gonna take it ♪ ♪ we're not gonna take it ♪ ♪ we're not gonna take it ♪ ♪ we're not gonna take it ♪ ♪ we're not gonna take it ♪ ♪ we're not gonna take it ♪ ♪ we're not gonna take it ♪ ♪ never did and never will ♪ ♪ don't want no religion ♪ ♪ and as far as we can tell ♪ ♪ we ain't gonna take you ♪ [siren wailing] ♪ never did and never will ♪ ♪ we're not gonna take you ♪ ♪ we forsake you ♪ ♪ gonna break you ♪ ♪ let's forget you ♪ ♪ better still ♪♪ ♪ see me ♪ ♪ feel me ♪ ♪ touch me ♪ ♪ hear me ♪ ♪ see me ♪ ♪ feel me ♪ ♪ hear me ♪ ♪ see me ♪ ♪ feel me ♪ ♪ touch me ♪ ♪ hear me ♪ ♪ see me ♪ ♪ feel me ♪ ♪ touch me ♪ ♪ hear me ♪ ♪ hear me ♪ chorus: ♪ listening to you i get the music ♪ ♪ gazing at you i get the heat ♪ ♪ following you i climb the mountain ♪ ♪ i get excitement at your feet ♪ ♪ right behind you i see the millions ♪ ♪ on you i see the glory ♪ ♪ from you i get opinions ♪ ♪ from you i get the story ♪ ♪ listening to you i get the music ♪ ♪ gazing at you i get the heat ♪ ♪ following you i climb the mountain ♪ ♪ i get excitement at your feet ♪ tommy & chorus: ♪ oh, right behind you ♪ ♪ i see the millions ♪ ♪ on you, i see the glory ♪ ♪ from you, i get opinions ♪ ♪ from you, i get the story ♪ ♪ listening to you ♪ ♪ i get the music ♪ ♪ gazing at you ♪ ♪ i get the heat ♪ ♪ following you ♪ ♪ i climb the mountain ♪ ♪ i get excitement at your feet ♪ ♪ right behind you i see the millions ♪ ♪ on you, i see the glory ♪ ♪ from you, i get opinions ♪ ♪ from you, i get the story ♪ ♪ oh, listening to you ♪ ♪ i get the music ♪ ♪ gazing at you ♪ ♪ i get the heat ♪ ♪ following you ♪ ♪ i climb the mountain ♪ ♪ i get excitement at your feet ♪ ♪ right behind you i see the millions ♪ ♪ on you, i see the glory ♪ ♪ from you, i get opinions ♪ ♪ from you, i get the story ♪ ♪ listening to you ♪♪ [the who's "listening to you" playing]