xiao feng, let's do what we always do: help me count how many people are walking through the gate? sure. mom, it was all my fault. i shouldn't have lied to dad. i shouldn't have fooled around. i will never lie again, ever! mom! i'm your uncle. not your mom. why did you apply for the police academy? i want... i want to commit... a perfect crime. qin, you gonna eat or not? since birth, people are destined to play different roles. some roles are good, while others are evil. what's your role? qin, i'm gonna eat yours too. when you gaze into the abyss, the abyss is also gazing into you. it's ok to gaze, but don't linger. qin, i left the soup for you. qin feng. there is ice cream too. qin feng. what's your role? are you a man or a monster? there's low-calorie yogurt. qin feng. and free booze too. qin feng, are you a man or a monster? daddy, i'm sorry! are you a man or a monster? have some. qin feng. qin. qin feng. qin. qin feng. qin. you hit me? no, i didn't. you didn't hit me? were... were you sleepwalking? you were the sleeping one. we'll soon be landing at tokyonarita international airport. did you eat all of these? it's just one meal. one meal? you were eating from new york to tokyo. all of those are free. your stomach is going to hurt. i, tang ren, might be a headache for others, but my stomach never hurts! you're such a jinx. i need to hit the loo. something's not right. yeah, my stomach doesn't feel right. something's wrong with noda hiroshi. yeah, why is he alone? don't we deserve a welcoming team of hundreds of people? hi. let's go! i need to use the restroom. no time for that. where are you rushing into? your afterlife? what's wrong? the man at 9 o'clock. his newspaper is from 3 days ago. the cleaner at 10 o'clock, that uniform doesn't fit him. those two men at 2 o'clock who seem to be waiting for someone, but their eyes are on us all the time. vietnamese, southeast asia united army, what do they want? go. kid... kidnap? wait... i thought japan was a lawful society? what do we do now? is tokyo this dangerous? welcome to tokyo! please. such a grand opening! so it is for watanabe masaru's case? otherwise we wouldn't have you here. leave the case alone, answer my three questions first! why do they want to kidnap us? where is your limousine? and is it equipped with a toilet? my limousine is here. wait. what? i sensed hostility around us. where? over... over there. he's leering. does he fancy us? he's the no.1 detective in thailand. am i not the no.1 detective in thailand? he's a retired policeman. three years' muay thai champion. he's known for his relentless and invincible "rabid dog" style. jack jaa, the mad detective. thai boxing champion? if it weren't for my stomach's sake, that dude, i'd beat him up every time i meet him. he's coming this way. why do you know him so well? you haven't been on crimaster, have you? this guy is surging in the chart. he's already made it into the top 10. don't be scared. backup team! it looks so painful. tang, we're counting on you. so what is this case about? you had such a big scene here. these people will tell you. that is the suspect, watanabe masaru. he's also our client. he's the sixth-generation leader of black dragon, the most powerful mafia in japan. the victim, su chaiwit. president of the southeast asia chamber of commerce. the sponsor behind gangs like the vietnam gang and the greater malay gang. they had been fighting over the development rights of the new chinatown in downtown tokyo. after several rounds of fights, it eventually developed into violent confrontations. the night of the incident, watanabe masaru and su chaiwit were having the last round of negotiations. su chaiwit was then attacked and he died on the way to the hospital. how do you know all of this already? q. q the queen? three hours after we got the invitation from noda hiroshi, q released the information of this 'ironclad' case on crimaster. ironclad case? a case that is almost concluded, with no disputes. all the evidence points to watanabe masaru as the murderer. then why are we here? to find a crack in the iron? you guys are the only variate. and that's why they tried to stop us from seeing watanabe masaru. who will be the judge? everyone. he's persistent. get in the car. they are stealing our cars. give it back! give it back! get rid of him! he is chasing so tight! is he your ex-boyfriend? let's see for how long he can last! tokyo, here we come! this won't work. i can't stand this rabid dog any more. you guys go first! how "ironclad" is this case? the only person found at the crime scene was the victim. there is no entrance or exit for the suspect to assess the room. it is a perfect locked-room. so it has to be a homicide, right? qin, we all know it's an ironclad case and it's risky to work with the gangsters. let's switch to a different case. a different case? the rapist-murderer. i hate them the most. no... no... way i'm going to meet watanabe masaru and i'm going to see that locked-room. locked-room? what is it with you and locked rooms? locked rooms are the ultimate challenge of detective reasoning. the three coffins. the judas window. your window. here... here we are. no can do. i don't have room for more soup. soup in japan means bathhouse. bathhouse? the legal ones? you've been to the illegal ones? are we really going in there? are you scared? you're scared! then why are you sweating so much? because of tokyo hot. mr.qin and mr.tang? yes, we are. welcome. beautiful tattoos drawn on their bodies, a round of applause to the gangsta buddies! stop! they don't speak chinese. a group of old farts, is this a nursing home for tattooed seniors? the aging of gangsters is a serious issue in japan. younger generations no longer want to join the gang. watanabe masaru. oh no! he has needle wrinkles between his eyes and dented brows on the sides. his hostile eyes surrounded with a turbid vibe. and he has a thin lip and small ears on his darkened face. he's definitely murderer material! moron. this is a face mask. you speak chinese? i only know one sentence. that's two already. take it off. stuff it in. where? this is a simultaneous interpreting device. you two may come down now. you guys can back off now. you think these two wimps are capable of doing me harm? noda hiroshi said you two are genius detectives. we're just a tad more awesome than he is. there's only one week before the trial, we don't have much time. now you can ask me three questions. how much you gonna pay us? one billion yen. how much is that in rmb? 70 million yuan. one last question. when can you pay? what... what happened that night? we were about to seal the deal on the new chinatown area estate. but su chaiwit asked me to have one final talk with him. the meeting took place in the watery hall. the watery hall is surrounded by water. there's only one corridor that leads to the hall which makes it hard to ambush, so it's very safe. it's been the favorite meeting location of the gangs in the east. due to previous conflicts between us, that day, su chaiwit came with a large entourage including his secretary, kobayashi anna. please have some tea. please have some tea. we started the negotiation after some tea. the tea was the problem. it tasted awful? i started to feel dizzy after i drank it. and then? that's all. when i woke up, they were rushing into the room. i saw my hand bleeding, and su chaiwit had been stabbed. all of you were there that night? tell me what you saw. just as what the president said, after we arrived at the watery hall, president and su chaiwit went into the room and we waited outside. 15 minutes later, we heard... we heard a crackling sound. that means you didn't go into the room immediately after the noise? no. if we had gone inside sooner, things would have turned out differently. it's all my fault! i'll cut a finger for it!! that can wait! answer my questions first. how long did you wait before going into the room? around one or two minutes. and why did you decide to go in? because... because... because they heard su chaiwit's call for help. he's right. what are you doing! president! president! president! so there's only two of them in the room. yes. the first person who went in was su chaiwit's secretary. yes, it was all my fault for letting her get ahead of me. i'm cutting a finger for my fault! answer my questions before you do it! not a single one of you went to the hospital with su chaiwit? all of our attention was on our president. i'm cutting my finger! i captured two clips from the cctv. one is of them taking su chaiwit out of the watery hall. the other one shows the arrival at the hospital. he died before they wheeled him into the emergency room. enough. now that you're clear on what happened that night. the question is, will you take this case or not? of course yes! one billon yen, not one cent less! good. i'm entrusting you with the honor and future of our gang and of myself. within one week, you have to solve the case. otherwise, i won't let you off. neither will they. so, yes or no? yes! or not? this is a locked-room case. there's judas window. exactly. japan, locked-room, the lattice reasoning and mafia. such a variety of elements, even a detective novel can't cover all of these. yes. yes! my assistant said yes, so we'll take it! deal. last question. you used up all three questions. let's go. wait. you get one free. did you kill him? what the hell are you telling about? i wouldn't have you here if i killed him. i would just ask for him. what do you mean? are you insulting me? i beg your pardon? i'm telling you if it weren't for your safety, i would have given him a taste of my mo boxing routine. this is the last cctv camera. such a natural enclosed space. and that's what makes it suspicious. come on! let's go and have a look. if the case can't be solved by two of us working as a team. then it can't be the work of a human being. get a room. you guys are so close to kissing each other. let's go. words are but wind, but seeing is believing. what the? what? where is the crime scene? this is the crime scene. where is the shattered screen, the blood trail and the finger prints? right! where is the shattered screen, the blood trail and the finger prints? they cleaned it up after the police collected the evidence. you japanese people are crazy about cleaning. there is nothing left. what are we doing here? seeing the photos at the crime scene will give us more inspiration, right? any other information that i didn't see? i need to keep up with you. time for another contest? tell me what you found. the blood splatter indicates a severed abdominal artery. the amount of bleeding exceeds 300cc according to my visual inspection. the nearest hospital is 25 minutes' drive away. so death from hemorrhagic shock is plausible. a completely locked room. excludes the possibility of a third person entering and leaving the room. now let's discuss these two cups of tea that i can't see. both of them contain a high quantity of ghb. the only suspect is the waitress of the night, yoshimoto yuki. she was found dead the next morning having hung herself in her apartment. silenced. how about su chaiwit's body? residue of ghb found. how about watanabe masaru? this drug won't stay in the human body for longer than 6 hours. it was already too late when they considered checking him. so he might have lied. he might have never taken the tea. the dead tell a more honest story than the living. according to the theory of ockham's razor, simple reasoning shouldn't be complicated unnecessarily. you want to believe the dead or the living? of course the dead unless he killed himself. there's only one doubt. what? there's splintered glass beneath him where su chaiwit fell down, which indicates he passed out after the glass screen was shattered. but there was no broken glass beneath watanabe masaru, that means he crashed before the glass screen got smashed. he didn't push the screen down? how did that happen? was there really a third person? that would be the most reasonable explanation. but in this particular space, the presence of a third person is impossible. are we having a supernatural talk? so that's why you believe watanabe masaru? and his motive for murder. the development rights for that area were already in his pocket. what would be his reason to kill? stop wringing your brain. what the mortals can't figure out should be handed to the gods. the dowsing rod gives worldly affairs clarity. the deity will be the judge when it merges with me. go! i got it! the killer had been hiding under the table. how could a man hide in there? they were not blind. don't you forget they have a very special profession in japan called ninja. the killer must be a ninja. he slipped the poison in then hid under the table. after those two passed out, he smashed the glass screen and stabbed su chaiwit. then he planted it on watanabe masaru. before everyone else entered the room, he hid himself. my inference is flawless, you should call me a genius! maybe the dowsing rod wasn't pointing to the table, but this. one detail in the photo struck me as rather curious. this brass ornament fell right next to watanabe masaru's hand. before he fainted, he must have touched it. watanabe masaru. there are metallic scratches on the oxide layer of the brass piece. the handling and scratches point to one possibility only. it's a hitting weapon. if i'm correct with my inference, there should be a blow wound on the left side of su chaiwit's head. that means watanabe masaru lied. he did try to kill him. if we give this evidence to the police, he will be convicted. it took a lot of effort to get his medical parole, this new evidence will send him back under arrest. give me that! don't you dare forget who is our boss? the truth is my boss! truth, truth! one billion yen, man! you're not the richest man, one billion doesn't just happen like that. no matter how much money he offers us, a murderer stays a murderer. a, a, a... amazing boobs. send you off from our little town, there's a few things that i want to remind you. you hit me? your sympathetic nerves get excited resulting in a sudden rush of adrenaline and catecholamine. causing the capillaries of certain organs to grow rapidly. grow rapidly...certain organs... your skin! you're blushing! did you guys hear the music just now? it's an old song. moron! this is kobayashi anna, senior assistant to mr. su. you already speak chinese, you don't need this. miss kobayashi, please put this on, it's very handy. now our communication has no boundaries. i'm... i know who you are. really? am i that famous? even in japan? today, i have the monks pray for the soul of my master su chaiwit. over the years i regarded him as my father. my condolences, miss kobayashi. but if you wanna cry, cry on my shoulders. they are yours now. allow me to do something for our father. to help us lock on the culprit as soon as possible, to help us lock on the culprit as soon as possible, do you mind if i ask about what happened that night? is that even necessary? it's watanabe masaru who did it! you look very certain. there was nobody else in the room that night. i was the first to run inside after i heard the noise. president! shut up! save him first! mr. su chaiwit. mr. su chaiwit. take him to the hospital, right now! and mr. president told me before he died, it was watanabe masaru who stabbed him. hang in there, mr. su chaiwit. masaru watanabe avenge me. mr. su chaiwit mr. su chaiwit mr. tang, you're the no.1 detective from chinatown. are you going to help this scum walk free from this felony? do you know what he did to me that night? he did an abomination other than killing a man? that night... such a beautiful secretary. how much does mr. su pay you? come work for me, i'll double the paycheck. kobayashi, it seems like mr. watanabe really likes you. leave us for now. bastard. he's worse then a beast! yet you're helping him. you don't see anything but money, do you? who told you i do it for the money? i was only pretending to accept his bribe, so that i could infiltrate the enemy. and after all the humiliation i went through, i just found evidence overlooked by the police. what is this? we've checked that watanabe masaru must have attacked su chaiwit with this. if we can find the wound on su chaiwit's head, then watanabe's intention to kill will be confirmed. jack jaa! thank you. thank you. thank you. such important evidence should be handled by the police. tanaka naoki, the youngest senior superintendent in japan's history. he has maintained a 100% case clear-up rate. people call him the police prodigy. sorry. thank you for getting this new evidence for me. watanabe will not get away this time. thai detective. japanese detective. chinese detective. impressive. yet crimaster is only for kids who fancy detective novels and movies. i'm the law here. and let me remind you, don't ever show up where you shouldn't be, or i will arrest you. is that clear? let's go. you're absolutely about to fail, but you still stand by the japanese? what do you mean? watanabe would not be easy on you guys if he know the new evidence was handed to the police. but if you guys work with us, i will make sure you can go back to china alive. are you going to betray us? it's not like we are going to lose. so pick one side! it's me who bought your flights. can i choose both? no need! if we lose, so be it. fine! i'll see... ...how watanabe is going to kill you guys. remember my heart, remember my love for you. remember i'll be waiting for you every single day. the old song is on again? so you heard that too? moron. what do we do now? will watanabe flip on us? from what i know, he will. you got two options: either hit the road now or solve the case soon. what the living doesn't tell us, let's consult the dead. this time, please don't put me in the nurse costume again. dressing up like a woman really messed with my hormones. you play the corpse this time. why aren't you playing the corpse? do you know how to conduct an autopsy? reiko, you scared me. how do you work here with such timidity? movies are all fiction, zombies don't exist at all. some of them might come pay you a visit tonight. great. life is so boring now. we're here. you are? delivery. so ugly. have you ever seen any attractive dead body? the elevator's acting weird recently, just be careful. okay. i almost died from suffocation. is the new autopsy report out? here, officer tanaka. exactly as i predicted. there is a wound on the left back side of su chaiwit's head. now we can request the arrest warrant again. yes, sir. anything unusual? no, sir. show me the morgue. yes, sir. this way please. what do i do now? are you trying to kill me? but i'm your uncle, by blood! you gonna kill me? i'm your biological uncle! let's find su chaiwit's body. i want to check by myself. got it! let's check somewhere else. got it! why is the president lighter? of couse corpse becomes lighter. you idiot! what are you doing? what is that! find the body and burn it, so there's no evidence for the southeast chamber. mr. president would be very touched by us. mr. president would be very touched by us. be brave when we get into the morgue, there is nothing to be scared of. roger. please. after you. you go first. no, you go first. please. not this one. here it is. this one. great. why is su chaiwit so light? dead bodies are always lighter. dumbass. please. please. please. come in please. where is tang ren? don't mind him, su chaiwit is our priority. why is it going up? two cowards. what again? be careful. you! you! you! you guys! what's that? get them! quickly! get them! the mild edema on the left back side of the skull was caused by a blow to the head. vital reaction not obvious which means the wound was created not long before his death. radius of the wound is 3.5cm, which matches the size of the brass ornament. the lethal injury was done with a cone-shaped object. the uneven surface matches the glass object left by watanabe at the crime scene. autopsy report shows that the glass pieces left inside the victim's body are identical to the shattered screen. it looks like watanabe is the murderer. only one thing left. there are two ways of handling the weapon when stabbing someone: holding it with the palm, or the hypothenar muscles of the hand. watanabe masaru is 1.75 meters, whereas su chaiwit is 1.8 meters. if he struck from the front using the palm, then the wound should be on the left side of the underbelly. but the injury is on his right side, so he must have been holding the blade against the hypothenar muscles and stabbed from the back. the way watanabe handled the weapon is the key now. kobayashi, who ran into the room first must have witnessed it. have you noticed the pinhole in his vein? yes. his medical report doesn't mention recent injections though. well, there's only one person who can answer all these questions. kobayashi anna. last night, watanabe masaru, the head of the biggest mafia in the east, black dragon, was arrested again. okay, i see. the black dragon has issued an order to hunt you guys down. this is getting messy. are you aware of the trouble you get us in? say one more word and i will kill myself. and you will lose your uncle forever! aren't you from the extended family? if we want to leave japan safely, we need to crack the case. miss kobayashi lives in such a cute apartment. would you like her to be your aunt? if she's willing to take chinese citizenship, i might consider marrying her. miss kobayashi, i'm coming. why is the door unlocked? miss kobayashi, are you taking a shower? i'm coming in. miss kobayashi. don't bother. kobayashi has been kidnapped. what? that's right. she's been gassed unconscious then dragged out. what's going to happen to my kobayashi? you again? are you trying to sabotage our investigation by hiding miss kobayashi? it must be this japanese. he kidnapped kobayashi for watanabe! we will never do this despicable shits. so it's you. are you insane? it must be watanabe! he wants to silence the witness. it's definitely not him, the police arrested him last night. cut the crap. give my kobayashi back! get your dirty paws off me, you haven't showered for days. how do you know that? you call yourself a man looking like this? what's wrong with being handsome? you should take care of your skin. sissy, you never understand a man should look like this. not you! you crazy! how dare you two brag about masculinity in front of me? alright, stop fighting! the pinhole on su chaiwit and the way watanabe held the weapon, only kobayashi owns the key to the truth. and the key to my heart. to know the truth, we must find kobayashi anna first. now, we share the same goal. that gives us zero information. car plate. call the police. tanaka will have us arrested. i'll beat you up if you snatch the phone! and i don't practice mo boxing for nothing. stop it. i found the car owner. a man wanted by the police, murata akira. murata akira. rapist-murderer. that serial rapist-murderer. what? rapist-murderer? my kobayashi... no... i've located his den. it can't be that simple. let's save the hostage first. go! this indeed looks like the den of a pervert. kobayashi's safety is our top priority. keep the twaddle to yourself. watch out, folks. better hide behind my back, you guys. easy, easy. qin, help me! 3 poor people, 2 loaves of bread, show fairness and justice with 1 cut. 3 poor people, 2 loaves of bread, show fairness and justice with 1 cut. 3 poor people, 2 loaves of bread, show fairness and justice with 1 cut. easy! wrong answer. 2 chance left. the world doesn't suffer from scarcity but from inequality. wrong answer. 1 chance left. let me do it. qin, you killed the man. correct. justice and equality demand sacrifices. game starts. see kobayashi after 3 passes. you understand it? i only curse because i don't understand it. what does it mean? the game has just begun. games? this is turning into a game now? aren't we here on a rescue mission? shut up. tomorrow, 10 am, if you want to save kobayashi, each of you must bring 100 million yen to the cosplay carnival at akihabara. she will be killed if you call the police. three detectives? he didn't count you in? or you? his motive is money? his motive can't be this simple. now that we don't have other clues, we can only follow his order. how about the money? who can get three hundred million yen within one night? this late? banks are closed now. don't you own tokyo? total bullshit! i can say japan belongs to me. sawatdee krab. you will know! there's a spot. this group. faster! faster! faster! you go that way! master, we have summoned thousands of our employees to withdraw cash. but it's still not enough. then get more people on it. it's already 12 o'clock, ask all of them to withdraw again. roger. i didn't find you too handsome until today. shameless! need a bodyguard? you guys are all wet. let me take you to get changed. so handsome! i can't take it anymore. sorry. you can go in. back up! shit! we can't get in the carnival without costumes. this way. which one should i pick? it's so hard to choose with so many options. you've been waiting for this day, haven't you? it all looks so sissy. how would i wear it? you will look good in this. i swear on my grandfather's name. these are all japanese characters. these are quintessential to our culture, do you have any? qin, we have to strive for the honor of our country. what exactly are we looking for? we're looking for kobayashi. and how do we do that without a single hint? no hint? the hint is in front of you. what is it? a puzzle. think about the people you pass by... one chance only. can we get out of these costumes first? this is too... who is calling? the phone is from inside. he's asked us to fill in three numbers before he hangs up. the numbers we've seen. who's had number on them before? the last one? stop that! i don't know! i do! d 36d isn't it obvious? he's asked us to get to the temple in harajuku. my instruction is to go to ebisu. i'm heading to budokan. how can we make it? we have to make it. qin, wait for me. how do we get there? we might have a chance if we go underground. underground? i can't breath. can't breath. you want to save miss kobayashi or not? miss kobayashi! here! help! stop, you bastard! stop there! give my girl back! what is noda hiroshi doing there? he's not moving at all. he's moving! and he's moving so fast. is he flying? i'm the king of tokyo! cheating. you lose! what? look! noda's red dot disappeared. did he crash? leave him alone! just run! stop there! stop! come back! this one is it! this is your choice. you take care of it. but i chose the thin white leg. it is pretty white, just a bit thick. you don't want to save miss kobayashi? i do. but i don't want to die either. death befalls all men alike. it may be weightier than mount tai, or lighter than a feather. he is mount tai no doubt. and i am a feather for sure. tang! remember that old song? wild flowers on the road... not this one. you're right. the great wall will never fall. i will beat you at any cost! call the ambulance, please! tang! tang! any last words? tell me. qin, please take good care of miss kobayashi, ah xiang in thailand, and ying ying in america. how can i take care of so many aunts? i'm your uncle! by blood! extended. the blood is real! enough. drop the act. i found his weakness. you wanna beat him? you're not kidding? when you guys were fighting, i noticed that the callous on his right foot is thicker than the left. it's resulted from years of putting his weight on the right leg, so his left foot must suffer from a prolonged injury. besides, the skin tone of his left ankle is much lighter than the rest of his body due to bandaging. so his weakness is his left ankle. to topple a mansion, aim at the frailest beam. got it! nezha explores the sea. dividing the wild horse's mane. immortal points direction. monkey steals peach. white python screws. mountain tai on top. stop it! qin, did you learn all these tricks from action films? jack jaa is out. congratulations on passing this test. how much longer do you want to play? the ultimate test is in 10 minutes, shibuya, hachi ko. what is the ultimate test? what do you see? people. a lot of people. that's right. this is the busiest crossroad in the world. i would like to know how many people pass the crossway when the traffic lights' up. so? so xiao feng, let's do what we always do: help daddy count how many people are there. who are you? who on earth are you? do you want to know who i am or where kobayashi is? this is your ultimate challenge. start. what did he ask us to do? count people! quickly, lend me your shoulders. count people? such a sick request. steady. we need to stay still like this? yes. lucky that i've been training since i was little. first attempt failed. you get two more chances. keep going. it's about to start again. wrong! this is human nature. regulations can never control human nature. qin feng, you have one last chance. get ready to collect the corpse. this sick bastard is not coming for money, he just wants to torture us. let's go! qin! what are you doing? there is all real money! trust me if you want to save kobayashi. join me! the answer is zero. are we wrong again? no, we got it right this time. who am i? who am i? where am i? what journey did i put you through? another puzzle. miss kobayashi, where are you? zero or o? did you count the distance we've traveled since we left from noda's house? q. q the queen? all of this is related to the queen? qin, let's go, hurry up. noda, help me find tokyo locations with q in their names. kobayashi is in that place. wait a second. in tokyo, there is only one place that has q in its name. the metropolitan area outer underground discharge channel. dragon q palace. why are you holding my hand? qin, don't be scared. i'm not scared. i'm afraid that you might be scared. i'm not scared, you are. i'm afraid that you get scared. that's what i'm afraid of. enough with the afraid stuff and let go of me. you're grossing me out with your sweaty hand. help! help! help! help! miss kobayashi. tang ren! save me! i'm coming! tang ren! save me! who are you? and why do you know me? what exactly do you want? easy with your questions. first of all, there's one last choice to make. what choice? tang ren! save me! i'm here! miss kobayashi. help! qin! tang! tang! qin! qin! miss kobayashi. this is your choice to make. the valve of the well is wired to my heart pacemaker. the water won't stop until i die. to save kobayashi, you will have to kill me. maniac! why would i kill you? i'm a death-row convict. it's time for you to execute justice. i don't have the right to perform justice! no? you are qualified to do so. it's much easier than committing a perfect crime, isn't it? stop hesitating, qin feng. just a gentle push, you can save the innocent woman down there. and i am a condemned sinner who's supposed to die anyway. now you have two lives in your hand. qin feng, don't you feel like god? qin! qin! don't hesitate, qin feng! make your choice! qin! feeling so quiet this time drift into the darkness let me be endless goodbye end of my old life no one is luckless when comes the fairness through the dark a world is waiting through where no one's ever looking a place that will be called my own so trade that typical for something new and colorful like you say everything will not be the same qin feng, you are under arrest and charged with murder. qin, qin. he said he didn't kill anyone. why are you arresting him? you wouldn't have saved kobayashi without him. everyone saw him pushing the victim down! killing is not saving. social butterfly! do something! think of something! sorry, there's nothing i can do. how come there's nothing you can do? aren't you the king of tokyo? don't forget that he's here for you. he came here for the case. whereas you came for the money. i already told you. never help the japanese. please help him then. help qin! but you never listen to me. you double-crossing bastards. you think i can't get things done without you? without you, i'll save qin by myself! what's with the pinhole on su chaiwit's arm? i don't know. your mind is still on cracking the case? you must remember how watanabe masaru was holding the weapon when you saw him. was it like this, or this? like this, i think. okay. i see. let's go. by the way, your chinese is good. qin, i'm gonna get you out. how did it go? parole denied due to the gravity of the case. aren't you rich? just buy out the procuratorate. it's not up to me. kawamura yoshiko is the prosecutor. if she thinks qin feng is fine, then he will be fine. excellent! everyone knows that i'm popular among middle-aged women. time for me to sacrifice my body in exchange for qin. come on! introduce me! why are you stopping me? calm down. how can i calm down? you should go back to bangkok and lie low. the black dragon is after you now. you're not safe here in japan. i can't just leave qin here. but you can't help much here. what's this? a boat ticket. you will get caught if you take the plane. boat? what about your private jets? there aren't that many of them. and they're preoccupied with other tasks. a car has been arranged for you to leave now. where is the car? here! where's the boat? there are so many of them. i mean the boat that is supposed to take me back to thailand. the luxury liner! that one. noda hiroshi you piece of shit! this shitty boat doesn't even require a ticket. welcome. this way. follow me. follow me. no more hesitation, qin feng! make you choice! qin! q says hi. are we admitting defeat? even so, we still have to find out the truth, don't we? locked rooms, the ultimate subject that every detective authors wants to explore. as one of the three tycoons of the golden era, john dickson carr, in his work the lecture of locked rooms. divides the locked-room cases into 13 categories. this means our case must fall into one of them. category one, it's not really a murder but the unfortunate outcome of a series of uncanny coincidences. category two, the room is equipped with a secret device that kills. category three, the murderer uses animals or plants to kill. category four and category five, people enter the locked-room while the murderer hides behind the door. category eight and category nine, the murderer stabs the victim somewhere outside the room. in order to hide from the murderer's chase, our case is narrowed down to three possibilities. one, the sham cham. the murderer operates in a seemingly enclosed chamber which actually has a secret passage for an escape. the locked-room doesn't have any air vent, secret tunnel or trapdoor. besides, the place was surrounded by gangs so nobody could enter or exit the room. two, room with a device. the murderer stays in the room and launches an attack with a remote-controlled device. there was no trace of any device at the crime scene, and within a sealed space it would be impossible to operation one. device nonexistent. category two ruled out. three, the hidden killer. like tang ren's case in thailand, the murderer didn't leave the scene after the crime but stashed himself in the room and waited till the alert was lifted. in our scene there, was no furniture for hiding. no place to hide. category three ruled out. with all the possibilities excluded, watanabe has to be the culprit. but there is still no explanation for the lack of broken glass beneath his body. if the screen was smashed after watanabe was down, then it's the real murderer who did this. only watanabe masaru and su chaiwit were in the room. su chaiwit couldn't have stabbed himself. is there a 14th category? wait. what did you say? that su chaiwit couldn't have stabbed himself. you. such a time of mistrust. the detective who decodes locked-rooms is now trapped in one. isn't that ironic, qin feng? murata akira was just a puppet. you're the one pulling the strings. we finally meet, q. q why do you say so? before we came to japan, everything seemed to be manipulated by a pair of invisible hands. three hours after we received noda's invitation, q posted the case on crimaster. it can't be a coincidence. it was q's plan all along. including putting me in jail. but this is not the purpose, i knew he would come to see me. hence, whoever shows up first should be q. q we were right about you. you guys? of course, q is not one individual. he is the best of the best, the elite selected from millions of people. congratulations on passing the test, on becoming one of us. test? first round, recognition. second round, capability. third round, methods. last round, epiphany. the answer is zero. if these are all tests, what about the case of watanabe? a coincidence that we borrowed to conduct our test on you. including framing me? this is not framing you, but showing you the human chaos. and the vacuity of law. to enlighten me on your philosophy, you killed a guy. murata akira? his life was worthless. a wanted order was the only evidence of his existence. in his last moment, i granted a shred of meaning to his life. he would be grateful. so, q, q what exactly do you want? human history is never written by the witless crowd. it's always been the elites who control the progress of civilizations. in the ancient past, they were deemed as gods. the world was a land of bliss governed by the deities. in order to let the world get back on track, humans need new gods. do you understand? that's when q emerged. qin feng, you've been pursuing the perfect crime without knowing that perfect crimes are taking place every moment. those old aristocrats and modern plutocrats, all bear the orginal sin. yet they all end up being worshipped and revered. do you understand? that, is the perfect crime. qin feng, join q. in putting the world on trial. compared to q's power, you will never beat us. you have your people, i have mine too. you? us. my baby apprentice. no time for weeping. kiko wants you to meet someone. who? like you? i didn't know you could drive. buckle up. we're in a hurry. i have seen it all, your shabby little car doesn't faze me. go inside. the one is inside waiting for you. uncle. you guys? who? tang ren who fled back to thailand? noda hiroshi who can't be trusted? or the puffed-chest and brainless jack jaa? qin feng, all you have is us, not you. don't hesitate and don't waste your gift. a murderer can be sentenced to death in japan. so qin feng didn't kill the guy. of course not. such a pity. what pity? i always believed he had the talent to kill. does killing require talent? anything in the world we call art demands talent. so genius, help qin. lord, please pardon his sins, save his soul, let him walk away from the dark and into the light. in the name of our lord, jesus christ. amen. sister, it's a good thing you're saving his soul. but i want you to save his ass. what are you doing? you want to kill me? look at you. stop pretending to be qin. what if i decide to join you guys? i got a convict to offer his life to me, surely i can get another convict to walk away as a free man. join us, you will get out of here in a second. otherwise, you will never crack the locked-room that you put yourself in. the room that we can never leave. the room you made on our own... so make a choice. i refuse. i'm sorry you said that, qin feng the chosen one who is not a friend, will be an enemy. i feel sorry too. i didn't know that q was not a person. the sixth test. ready. go. the sixth test. an extra kilo on the thrust. acceleration of gravity is 9.978. landing time 2.54 seconds. the dummy is 1.77 meters tall and weighs 66 kilos which is identical to the victim, murata akira. okay. now get ready for the seventh test. okay, no need to continue. i would like to know what on earth you are trying to show me. the siege experiment. you didn't know it? we do this experiment to show you that there is a difference between choosing to jump, and being pushed off the edge. you see this is where he landed. if he had been pushed, it would be a totally different landing spot. however, this experiment hardly proves qin feng's innocence. what's the reason behind murata's suicide? the reason is here. although murata akira was a lost soul living in utter isolation, i discovered his tenuous connection to the world. his only family is a daughter out of wedlock in vietnam. three days before murata akira escaped from jail, his daughter's bank account received over one million dollars. and one day before his death, another million dollars came in. evidence enough to prove that murata akira had made a deal with someone to frame qin feng for his own death. do you have other evidence that shows a direct correlation? looks like you need my help here. you ungrateful bastard. hold that for now. aunt kawamura. what? i made an exception to come here because your mother and i are friends. now what else? speak up. thank you so much for coming. in order to track down the suspect, i had the 300 million yen sprinkled with tracking powder which can only be detected by ultraviolet radiators and fluorescent lamps. if qin feng touched murata that day, he would have gotten tracking powder all over himself. but he was completely clean. so qin feng didn't even touch him. you had it all planned out? you scheming shrewd bastard. i believe qin feng and i tick in sync. we both know that the abduction of kobayashi anna couldn't be that simple. the mastermind behind it can only be q. the queen? we had to keep you in the dark to get him on the hook. it's called the ruse of self-injury. exactly. noda contacted us the night qin feng was arrested. he might be kind of a dandy, but he's trustworthy. so what do you think, aunt kawamura? don't try to dazzle me with your charm. i'm in my fifties and i have had my share of men. release him. so qin is all good now? the special thing between qin feng and i is that we often draw a similar analysis out of the a situation at the same time. so we both know our mission this time. i track down q and you save qin feng. and qin feng will focus on solving the locked-room case. now he should have reached the bottom of it. you have such confidence in him? just like believing in myself. qin! hos before bros, ha? where is tanaka naoki? he's a step ahead of us. the trial will start at 1 pm. how is your preparation going? missing the last part. where is the car that drove su chaiwit to the hospital? because of the severity of the case, the car has been confiscated in the evidence department since the night su chaiwit died. we will go there now. time is pressing, i'm afraid that it might delay the trial. let's split then. tang and i will go retrieve the evidence while you and kiko go to the court to prepare for the defense. sure, i'll leave my car with you. there's only two hours left, don't be late. su chaiwit's murder case will have its court hearing at 1 pm today. the court is swarmed with japanese southeast asian vehemently demanding the punishment be inflicted on the perpetrator. according to the analysis of experts in law enforcement, it's highly likely that watanabe masaru will be found guilty of murder. are you sure it's in the car? i don't know but we have to bet on it. what if it's not there? then we lose. tang! are you alright? i'm still breathing. qin! don't move! my leg! i can't make it. you have to take the evidence to the court! how is that gonna work? stop stalling! just go! run! five of us as pubg ling tong are here. we will end your swagger! nice to see you again, qin feng. how can you start a fight without us? winner winner peace keeper! and don't forget about our lu jingjing! don't flinch! march! koji, you guys didn't come for a fight! take me to court now! we can't wait any longer. alright. are you ready to start? the documents are here. okay. july 24th, 2019 leaders of the black dragon joint-stock company and the southeast chamber of commerce, defendant watanabe masaru and victim su chaiwit, held a private negotiation in the watery hall. su chaiwit was stabbed in the upper stomach, on the right, with a broken piece of screen. he died from severe blood loss after being hospitalized. jam it in. do... don't... don't be mad. calm down. i'm trying to save your boss. i'm working on that. revenge for the boss! revenge! in conclusion, the prosecutor believes that watanabe masaru can be confirmed to be the murderer of su chaiwit. and death penalty is applicable due to the vicious manner with which the crime is committed. defense attorney, would you like to add anything? then, defendant watanabe masaru, do you have an argument to make? alright. then, i'd like to announce... objection! sorry, you can't come in. objection overruled. bailiff, take them out. your honor, mr. qin feng is the assistant to the defense attorney. he just gathered some new evidence for the case. please let him present the closing argument. yes... now i'd like to hand the court to my assistant... qin feng! yes, qin feng. mr. noda hiroshi. please stop blatantly sending unwholesome signals to me in the court. i think you got the wrong person. mr. qin feng, you have ten minutes. i've placed the best translator for you. now the stage is yours. the crime happened in the watery hall, a natural locked-room surrounded by water on all sides. there were only two people in the room when the crime took place, the victim and the defendant. now one of them is dead while the other is sitting in the courtroom. the answer appears rather obvious. watanabe masaru is the murderer. but is that the truth? do you really have to drink water at this point? the most questionable point in the case, which is also the inherently contradictory, is that everyone near the crime scene heard the sound of glass shattering as well as the yelling from su chaiwit. but photos of the crime scene show no glass debris in the spot where watanabe masaru passed out. this indicates that he fainted before the glass screen broke. so, how to explain the cry heard from outside? all of this was a show directed by and starring, su chaiwit. what? bullshit! stop! you want justice, yes? yes! yes? yes! bastard! sorry! get them! that night, yoshimoto yuki slipped y-hydroxybutyrate in both cups, often called ghb. su chaiwit didn't drink the tea at first. we don't know the content of their conversation. but our defendant was so enraged by something su chaiwit said that he hit su with a brass ornament from the table. su pretended to be smacked down by the blow and dropped to the floor. but it wasn't until watanabe masaru passed out from the drug, that this case turned into a mind-blowing spectacle. watanabe masaru walked into the meeting room without wearing the dagger that he always had with him. leaving su chaiwit no choice but to abandon his original plan. after watanabe masaru fell unconscious, su chaiwit smashed the glass screen. he stabbed himself before cutting watanabe's hand. he took out a blood pouch he prepared beforehand, and created the scene of having been attacked. that's how he got the pinhole on his arm. what are you doing? it's a carefully thought out plan to plant the crime on watanabe masaru. what an amusing story. i could hardly stop myself from laughing. if that's the case, according to your hypothesis, what would be su chaiwit's motive? once watanabe is behind bars, the community of southeast asia will regain the development rights of the new chinatown. plus they can eradicate their arch-rival, the black dragon. one endeavor that yields multiple benefits. so he would risk losing his life just to frame watanabe? isn't it a bit too far-fetched? the lecture of locked rooms divides all the locked-room cases into 13 categories. none of the 13 categories fit this specific case. and that's because the culprit created a new type of room, the 14th room: the victim is also the designer of the room. he left the scene with minimal injuries. it's at the second crime scene that he got stabbed. and the real murderer is you who were outside the room, miss kobayashi anna. are you out of your mind? the coroner's report shows that su died from severe blood loss caused by a sharp glass object penetrating his liver. however, the lethal weapon wasn't the piece in watanabe's hand, but a different one. i re-assembled the broken glasses and there's one piece missing. because someone took this inconspicuous piece out of the room. and used it to stab su chaiwit in the car. this is a 3d simulation based on the glass fragments at the crime scene. obviously one piece is missing. what about the evidence? don't show us animation, show us the evidence. don't give me a hypothesis, present the evidence. everyone look closer. what's the difference between those two cctv videos? it's obvious that miss kobayashi looks sexier in the hospital! but why? because she's wearing less. what less? forgive me, miss kobayashi. i know that you like me, but my integrity as a detective is telling me to place righteousness over private affection. reasoning is about magnifying all the details. after i saw the differences of you, i couldn't help wondering: miss kobayashi, where did your handkerchief go between the crime scene and the hospital? because you used the handkerchief to keep your hands from getting injured while you committed the murder. objection! objection! objection to the groundless hypothesis of the defendant's attorney. he has a confused idea about the standing of miss kobayashi and himself. miss kobayashi is here today as a witness. this is the handkerchief, dagger and blood pouch that we just retrieved from su chaiwit's car. watanabe's weaponless screwed up su chaiwit's plan and yours. as there were no pockets on your suit, you had to stash the weapon in su chaiwit's pocket to leave the crime scene. and because of that, after you committed the murder, you had to hide the real weapon temporarily in the car. the unexpected happened when the car got seized by the police the same night, which left you no time to get the key evidence back. enough! your honor, i plead guilty. are you nuts? you didn't kill him. why would you plead guilty? i did! you didn't! i did! you did not! i did! you did not! i did! no! silence! where do you two think you are, an open-air market? defendant watanabe masaru, are you sure you're pleading guilty? yes. i'm guilty. such being the case. i announce... what's the motive? what? you said i killed su chaiwit. what's my motivation? what are you taking the courtroom for? silence! now the verdict. objection! so now anyone can just interrupt me? i haven't announce anything yet. objection again? get him out now! your honor, this is the detective from our side. he might have found new evidence. please give him time to make an argument. one last time. there is limit to my patience. thank you very much. is there a translator for me? english works. you are such a jerk! but you're not the murderer. what? the motive of murder is right here. i continued to find evidence against watanabe. all his files before his 38 are all blank. and i traced all the way back to the northeast of china. do you want to get things done? finish it! han jiang, china good. i found your birth certificate there. also, i happened to find another person's info. your father, yan sheng who was born in february 1946, in suihua, china. yan sheng, was another japanese war orphan and his parents were japanese immigrants. yan sheng, got this place as the world war's over, and he was brought up by a local farmer. he later got married with a war orphan, and you were born afterward. all you did is to take revenge on him. your biological father, watanabe, right? what are you talking about? where're you from? shut up. detective choose to follow the truth instead of side. you bring shame to your country, you hear me? get out of here! how can you be so sure that i'm the girl based on a birth certificate? the mark on your arm. the bcg vaccine in japan was conducted with nine-holed needles. the uneven mark on your arm just reads china. and the birthmark on you shoulder. like this, maybe. since i saw your birthmark i've been thinking. watanabe wasn't taking advantage of you that night, but trying to make sure of something. based on this clue, i tracked back to 1983, when your grandfather found your family and brought you three back to japan. the first time you were in this country, you were not even three years old. you finish the rest, the story is much too... yan sheng, returned to japan in 1983. within two years, he married the only daughter of the black dragon's oda kazuo, oda kotoko. then assumed his japanese name, watanabe masaru. his first wife lin nai died in 1988 due to... enough. please stop. why? cause you don't want people to know what you did? we were so poor. we were looking forward to a new life in the beginning, but everything turned out to be unbearable. language barriers, nobody cared about us, and no food. even when my daughter got sick, i couldn't do anything. we could have perished like roadside garbage, and no one would even know. so you just disposed of us like garbage? it was a deal. i beg you! father! please lend me some money! naeko's life depends on it. your japanese hasn't improved much. i will study harder. and i thought you could get things done all by yourself. by the way, what are your thoughts on that offer? father, about that... i can't do it! i can't just leave naeko and her mother! you loser! an inferior woman and her kid just stopped you! do you know what this marriage will bring to the two families? if you want the money, you have to disconnect yourself from those two women and marry kotoko. to save the kid's life or not, it's your call. ridiculous. you're telling me you did everything for me? i'm not excusing myself. at that time, i was desperate. do you know the life we lived afterwards? we didn't speak the language, with no identity, and we lost our only support when you left us. mother had to steal and mug to make sure i'd survive. and i'll never forget that she gave herself to a tramp for a bowl of soba noodles. and for a slice of strawberry cake, she was caught and put in jail. and she died there. you think you saved my life? how many times i've wished i died from that disease at five. do you know how i grew up? and what have i been through? why did you bring me into the world if you can't take the responsibility? ever since mama left me, i died with her. and it was from that day, i started telling myself that i need to seek revenge! that i will make you suffer from the loss of everything and the death in prison! su chaiwit was a jerk too! no one would regret both of your deaths! due to the complexity of the case, i declare a re-hearing of the watanabe homicide case be held after the evidence is re-organized. court in recess. please take suspect miss kobayashi. naeko! so what exactly did su chaiwit tell watanabe that night? kobayashi grew up without a father, so she yearns for older men. all you have to do is curl your finger, and she will fling herself at you no matter what you do with her. it's the guilt that's been weighing on him over these years. nobody can touch that, including himself. so he recognized kobayashi as his daughter that night? i think so. but he didn't know that kobayashi indeed came for him. you should be happy, man! because the case is finally cracked. let's find a thai restaurant. what do you want? thai food? tom yum kung! pad thai! let's go to a chinese restaurant and drink some chinese liquor. and some dumplings and hotpot. now we are in japan, shouldn't i invite you all for sushi and sake? tom yum kung is spicy. we should have japanese cuisine since we are in japan. chinese food have everything! you can have whatever you want. so beautiful. what date is today? obon festival. people in this way honor the spirits of their ancestors. may the deceased rest in peace hopefully. may people be free from suffering. world peace, harmony brings wealth! why are you staring at me? tang, i've known you for so long, and this is the most insightful thing you've ever said. of course! do you know where you're much better than these two? where? you have me! there's a place in your heart and i know that it is love and this place could be much brighter than tomorrow and if you really try you'll find there's no need to cry in this place you'll feel there's no hurt or sorrow there are ways to get there if you care enough for the living make a little space make a better place heal the world make it a better place for you and for me and the entire human race there are people dying if you care enough for the living make a better place for you and for me heal the world make it a better place for you and for me and the entire human race there are people dying if you care enough for the living make a better place for you and for me heal the world make it a better place by the way, si nuo asked me to give this to you. not paper-folding this time? ring is the token of affection. why a bracelet? mobius strip! what does it mean? she wants to tell me that the good and the evil are not exactly antithetical, but intertwined. sometimes, it's hard to distinguish between the good and the evil. don't you think that the band resembles a character? q! q qin feng refused us. no one has ever refused us. he is either with or against us. it's his loss. not ours. if not him, there will be others. to future. to future. someone has said that despite the difference between individuals, the amount of good and evil remains constant. while some take shelter in the darkness, we choose the light. as we believe that the world exists because justice always prevails and light overcomes darkness. as long as vices exist, we won't hold back on declaring war on them!