resync by: opt jules verne once wrote put two ships in the open sea without wind or tide, it will come together. that's how my parents met. like two ships destined for each other. hey, it's ok. easy, easy, easy. you weren't breathing. they were from different worlds. but life, like the sea, has a way of bringing people together. i was gonna make you some eggs. just don't eat my dog, ok? it's ok. it's ok. i made tea. come, try it. it'll make you better. so, who are you? atlantian. queen of atlantis. wow. i'm tom. keeper of lighthouse. she had fled an arranged marriage, left her whole world behind. but in my father's lighthouse, she found something unexpected. and my father, found the love of his life. how about arthur? after the hurricane. afterall, he's a king, no? he's more than that. he's living proof our people can co-exist. he could unite our worlds one day. and the trident could only be wielded by the strongest atlantean. and it gave the king mastery of the seven seas. made him so powerful. the ocean became so jealous, and sent a terrible earthquake to destroy atlantis. down it fell to the bottom of the ocean. but legend has it that one day a new king will come who will use the power of the trident to put atlantis back together again. tom, take him! queen atlanna. by the authority of king orvax, you re ordered to return to atlantis. atlanna! tom! here! the two worlds were never meant to meet and i was a product of a love that never should have been. you don't have to do this, atlantean. please. tom. they will always find me. next time they will send an army. i have to go back. it's the only way to save him. to save you. where i come from, the sea carries our tears away. not here. you'd feel it. i will return to you when it's safe. one day. right here. at sunrise. we'll be together again. you stay strong, my little prince. i'll always be with you. don't let him forget me. now today, we have better maps of mars than our own sea floor. come on. come over here. boys, stop. hi, fishy. my name's arthur. what's yours? you guys hungry? check it out. arthur is talking to the fish. you're such a prick, arthur. stop! stop it! stop! let me go! move it! come on, hurry up! sir, we've secured the captain. distress signal disabled. we're running dark in here. well they heard it, you can count on it. i'll make you a deal. i won't tell you how to captain, and you don't tell me how to pirate. where's the rest of the crew? they've sealed themselves up in the torpedo bay. our reputation precedes us. your reputation. this is your win. here. you take this piece of junk, this is part of your life. i never told you the story behind it. this was your grandfather's. he was one of the navy first fought in world war 2. he was so stealthy in the water. his unit nicknamed him manta. but after the war, his country forgot about him so he went back to the seas, scavenging and surviving with his wit. and this knife, he gave it to me when i was your age. and now, it's yours, son. we just hit something. no. something hit us./ sir, there's something out there. another submarine? /no. i think it's a man. that's not a man. stopper, to the right. bravo team, clear the passageway. permission to come on board. i've waited a long time for this. am i supposed to know who you are? i scavenge the high seas. you're the aquaman. we're about to meet at some point. let's not make it happen. ow! dad! dad. that's your kid? shame on you. you get yourself into this mess, get yourself out of this. bastard! wait! help me he's trapped! you can't leave him like this! please! you killed innocent people. you ask the sea for mercy. get out of here! i'll never leave you. you need to live so that you can kill that son of a bitch. now, go! go! damn you! go. i'll always know where to find you. old habits. come on, i'll buy you breakfast. you want me to hand it in a sippy cup for you. how is it that i could breathe underwater and lose the drink on the table with you. that's my superpower. the same pirate who are suspected to be connected with the disappearance of the navy's high classified prototype stealth submarine. and in further development, we now have unconfirmed reports that the meta-human dubbed by social media as the aquaman was responsible for this daring rescue… it's not me. oh shit. you're doing it, aren't you? what vulco trained you to do. i knew you couldn't stand on the sidelines forever. your mother always knew you were special./ don't even start. she believed you'd be the one to unite our two worlds. please, stop. whatever atlantis's problem are, you're bigger than them. atlantis murdered my mother. you didn't know that for sure./ yes, i do. they took her, for loving you and having me. and you know it. son, one day you'd have to stop blaming yourself. hey buddy. you'd that fish boy from the tv? oh, great. hey fish man. what'd you want? i'll tell you what i want. can i get a picture with you? you're like our local hero, man. it'll be quick. whatever./alright. let's do this. dont' touch me./right, that's exactly what i'd want to do down here. here we go. everybody smile. he understands the significance of this meeting. he'll hear you out. king orm./king nereus. you pick a meeting place too close to the surface to my liking. you don't recognise the council of the kings? at the site where the seven kings were one. our ancestors gathered here. …sat here at the head of the table. xebel were always by his side. brine, fishermen, deserters and trench had not yet followed. lost nations had not yet vanished. together we were the greatest empire the world had ever seen. but now, several long wars shattered by archaic laws and politics while the threat above us grows undeniable. violence has always plagued the surface. they will destroy themselves. not before destroying us first. we have been hiding long enough. the time has come for atlantis to rise again. we honour you king nereus… by inviting xebel to be the first kingdom to join king orm's alliance. as if you have a choice, vulko. by law you need four to seven kingdoms to send an attack. the lost nations and the deserters have long perished. the trench were nothing but anglers. the brine wouldn't join you, and the fishermen are cowards. with only my army to convince them, your plans are still burnt. but i know what you really want. once you'd obtained the pledge of the four kingdoms, you will be deemed ocean master. that's merely a title./i'm not a fool king orm. as ocean master you'll be commander of the greatest military might on this planet. i'm the natural choice to lead it. are you? what about the rumours there is another? an atlantian living on the surface one of royal blood. you may sit on the throne of atlantis. but your claim is just weak. how can you possibly hope to unite the empire? my mother's bastard has never even been to atlantis. his loyalty is to the… surface dwellers! move out! the king is injured! i'm not trying to start a war. the war has already begun. then it's time to send them a message that we're here. here's the key./ thank you. let's go home. if your grandpa's still alive, he'd be banging our heads when we're not finishing it. tell you what. there's still plenty of time for that. got to get you to bed. got it. i've been looking for you./ oh no. no. no. i need you to come with me to atlantis./ listen. i'm going to tell you the same thing i told that rusty starfish vulko. it's been nice meeting you, lady. no, thank you. i'm not interested. you defeated steppenwolf and saved atlantis. that had nothing to do with atlantis. your half brother, raja orm, is about to declare war with the surface world. billions will die. your people and mine. we must stop him. and how do you propose we do that? you re the first born son of queen atlanna. the throne is yours by birthright. the only way to stop this war and save both worlds is for you to take your rightful place as king. you think if i just show up, orm will give up the throne? i'm the bastard son of a queen your people executed. trust me. i'm no king. i i agree. that's awesome. go. but, vulko seems to believe in you for some reason. and that's why i'm here. vulko has learnt of the location of the lost trident of atlantis./ ooh, fairy tales. it's a myth./lt's not a myth. with the sacred trident, people will listen to you. you can then claim your birthright and dethrone orm. my birthright? it died with my mother. but i'll promise you this. if orm attacks, i'll treat him the same way your people treated her. with no mercy. that submarine was barely operational. but it served its purpose. one of your kind intervened. he is not one of us./ he killed my father. our transaction has ended. keep the money. i want aquaman. dad! dad! he;s not breathing./move! let me help. you know i don't even know your name. you may call me mera. thank you, mera. my god. this was orm's doing. the worst has yet to come. there's a flash flood… /building has been destroyed… ….unprecedented sites from all over the world today… we're seeing warships and trash washed up by massive waves. garbage in multiple counties. decades of pollution has been thrown back to land. question, was this a natural disaster or something else. no. this was no natural disaster. they threw out our garbage and warships. this was our first contact with the people of atlantis. here you go again, with your insane atlantean theory. you have absolutely no proof of this. open your eyes. we already have an atlantean living among us and his name is aquaman. what is it? this is the exact spot that vulko gave me my first formal lesson. you have to forgot all the teachings of the surface world. go deeper, to uncover your atlantean instinct. but i already know how to swim. not even close. so, we're clear. help you stop this war, then i'm done. maybe that's for the best. the ocean is more than our life soul. it's who we are. wait. you can talk underwater? hey, i can talk underwater too! this is awesome! no. we can do more than just talk. being an atlantean means being more than just able to breathe in water. your body is equipped to survive the extreme cold, and pressure. and your eyes adjust to see in the dark. this is awesome! so vulko, when can i meet my mother? soon, my young prince. when you're ready, i will take you to atlantis to meet the queen. i hid my ship in here. listen. i'm not getting in that thing. well to get to where we're going, you're gonna have to. your fish ship has been marinated in chump butter. i might come out like small bud. that's be an improvement. yup. welcome home. there is a safe house down in the old city. the high ones never ventured to the sea floor. we're here. what is this? these are air pockets we used as natural air precaution. only the high ones can breathe on air. plus, it keeps the animals out. they get kind of messy. vulko. here i am old man. after all these years, you finally get what you wanted. arthur, i wish it was under better circumstances. i can't believe orm attacked. it wasn't an attack. legally, he's not allowed to yet. what he did to your surface warships was merely a warning./ what provoked him? king orm and your father were ambushed by the surface. /the surface? i don't think so. i'd still think that's atlantis fairytale./ i was there. a surface warship fired at us. now, xebel sides with atlantis. giving orm a fleet big enough to force the other two kingdoms to join him. if we're gonna prevent this war, you must dethrone him now. how many times do i have to tell you, i don;t want to be king. once he's named ocean master, that'll be too late. the power at his disposal will be unlike anything you've ever seen. i'm from the surface. no one's gonna take me seriously. heck, i'd don't even know where to begin. by winning the hearts and minds of the people by proving to them that you're worthy. by retrieving this. i already got one of those. not like this one you don't. this is the lost trident of atlantis. oh, i know the story./ it's more than a story. it's real. it was forged by the greatest weapon masters in history. crafted from poseidon's steel. for king atlan, the first ruler of atlantis. legend says, the trident was build with the power to command the sea. so what happened to it? to know that, is to go back to the time before the great fall. when king atlan ruler over all that was, the kingdoms of atlantis were one. it was a time of great prosperity and technological advancement. we've unlocked the secret to unlimited energy when the rest of the world still thought the earth was flat. but we became too ambitious, too hungry for power. …swallowed us and atlantis sank. but the very power that collapsed our civilisation also paved the way to our future. it gave us ability to breathe underwater. and so, we evolved. others regressed. became savage. and the king lived out the remainder of his days in self imposed exile. neither he, nor the trident were ever seen again. one of our archeological team uncovered this a few months ago. it's an ancient recording dating back to the first dynasty. i believe it contained atlan's final message to it's people and the whereabouts of the sacred trident./ so what does it say? we don't know. the technology's too old. the cylinder bears the marking of the deserter kingdom. you must take it there to retrieve the message. the clue to atlan's final resting place is inside this. you're under arrest for illegal entry./go. you must be seen here. i don't suppose you want to talk about this, do you? neither do i. in the name of his highness king orm, i place you under arrest. welcome to atlantis, brother. i can't believe you're finally here. i've heard so many stories about you. all these years, i'm ashamed of my mother's surface brother. ashamed of the fact that i have a half breed brother i want to run my trident through. but now that you're finally here before me, i must admit… i'm conflicted. you want conflict, will you take these chains off little brother? and we'll see what we can run through. yes. i see you brought our mothers weapon. is that why you've come here after all this time? to kill me? i came here to stop a maniac from destroying my world. i see. and how do you plan to stop the atrocities by the surface to commit over centuries polluted our waters and poisoned our children. now the skies are burning our oceans you've come all this way to take side against your own people? there are no sides i don't want this. you've clearly chosen a side to come here to challenge the throne thats to stop your war. are you invoking the combat of the kings? call it whatever you want. i call it an ass whooping. well then perhaps that's how we'll proceed your majesty!/orm please. don't you see? if i defeat the first born son of atlanna in front of everyone. then all seven kingdoms will have to concede that i, am the one true king. your majesty. there is no victory in feeding the ignorant. your brother is clearly an imbecile. your highness. he doesn't know our ways. then he'll about to get an education. are you officially challenging me?/ hell yes, i'll challenge you. and when i win, if you win. i will cease all immediate action. the war is over. but if i win, you're over. good./so be it. challenge has been made, and i accept. prepare him for the ring of fire! wait. what? how can you be so foolish to let orm bait you into a fight? it seems to me that'll solve all our problems. i beat him in battle. war's over. i'm getting home. you're a formidable fighter on land. but here, you're out of your element literally. orm has spent his entire life underwater. training to be a warrior. training to be the best. you taught me how to fight. let's see if you remember anything what's with the big fork? /that's a trident. now defend! the hell is this?/i'll teach you the movement to master the trident. it;s not fair. this thing is too big. why can't i use a sword? that's your mother's trident. a traditional weapon of royalty. you'll never be a king until you mastered it. why she never come to see me, ha? i told you, when you're ready…/ stop lying to me! i've done everything you've asked. and everytime i passed a test, you make another one. when am i ever gonna be good enough? did she not love me? your mother loved you more than anything in the world. but she had to return to atlantis to keep you safe. her marriage to king orvax was arranged a long time ago so she had to marry him and bear him a son, prince orm. but orvax eventually found out about you, he became overwhelmed with jealousy and sacrificed her to the creatures of the trench are you saying they executed her because she had me? i remember, everything. i have something for you. it belonged to my mother. tell me, do you think she would enjoy watching her sons murder each other? i understand your fear, your reluctance, mera. i surely do. i don't want war. don't patronise me. i know you. what you're doing is against every advise your mother gave us when we were children. if she were her…/ but she's not here, is she. what my mother taught us was treason. don't follow her ways. alright, the feared ring of fire, huh? how it works… let's keep your ass right here. vulko, will you escort my betrothed to the royal box. let's go, lady mera. down here we have a legend called karathen. an ancient sea monster so powerful that king atlan himself feared it. so he imprisoned it./ in the depths of the ocean. and it that abyss, the creature buys time waiting to rise again. atlantis has been lying and wait. and now the beast has awaken. you know, there was a time when i wanted to meet you more than anything. to get to know my little brother. to let him know that he wasn't alone. then we run into together. for me i know what a dick you turned out to be. you're the reason our mother was executed. and i've hated you since the beginning but i do not want to kill you, arthur. i'm going to give you one chance. go home. do not ever come back to atlantis. you re not going to win it. the war is coming to the surface, whether you like it or not. and i'm bringing the wrath of the seven seas with me. you know i can't let that happen. i know. what the hell is that? the ring of fire. shit. people of atlantis, hear me. my brother has come from the surface to challenge me for the throne! let us settle this in the ancient way. by bloodshed to the gods… never thought i'd see the day when my own father would bow to the king of atlantis. the surface dweller drew first blood. what would you have us do? beg them for mercy? i detest the surface as much as you do. but don't you find the timing of all of this a bit convenient? you wouldn't be that gullible, would you? you want this war too, don't you? it's past time the surface dweller earn their place in the world. if this is what must be done, then so be it. that's my mother's trident, powerful but flawed like her. i wield my father's. and it has never known defeat! i promised atlanna i'll protect him. this isn't a competition. it's an execution. i am the one true king! you waiting for an invitation? get in! mera! so what's the plan?/the plan was to recover atlan's trident. then challenge orm. ok. so we do things not in order. shit happens. heads up. we got a bogey on our six./ what does that even mean? bad guys behind us./ we just did that. bad guys behind us. woah, woah, wait. you said we shouldn't go over these walls/ i did. we shouldn't hide these things./ i did! now shut up! we are not dead yet! jump! here, hold this. what are you doing?/ we're gonna follow pinnochio. who?/ never mind, come here. get in. come on. great. so we are getting eaten. how'd you even doing this anyway?/ i don't know. i can hear them sometimes. they can hear me/ right. we're both is some animal stomach. hey, i just saved your life. i saved yours first. he said, coast is clear. so, where to now? to the ocean of sand, your people called the sahara. right. thanks for the ride buddy. are you ok? i've never been so high up. we're so far from home. at least you have a home. not anymore. i can never go back. i betrayed everything when i saved you at the coliseum. kalau begitu, i have to take you back. atlantis is many wonderful things. but forgiving does not./ but you're royalty. so is your mother. if i go back now, i would be sacrificed for the trench. even my own father wouldn't take me back. look on the bright side. you don't have to marry someone you're obligated. obligation isn't love. this is my family and my nation. and i've turned my back on both. sometimes we have to do what's right, even if your heart aches against it. your highness. the tracking puts princess mera here. in the desert. you aid she was dead./apparently not. does your brother still lives as well?/ not for long. captain murk, assemble the strike force immediately./ no! mira is to be arrested and she returned to me. she betrayed the throne… she's the daughter of xebel. if any harm befalls her, our coalition is over. your highness, we are now entering the waters of the fisherman kingdom. securing the alliance of the other two kingdoms should be our immediate concern. my vizier is correct. as usual. arrest them and bring back king nereus's daughter unharmed. we're here. hey, is there anything nearby? nothing but deserts for hundreds of… mate./nothing but deserts… he's wrong! mera, no! she just jumped without a parachute. redhead. you gotta love 'em. you're crazier than i thought. this way. you were defeated the last time because your surface weapons failed you. ours will not. it's prototype armour for the next generation atlantean soldier. revenge is something we atlantean understand. you will lead my finest commandoes as your personal army, to hunt the half breed abomination. i can't touch them but you can. he's fled to your world. kill him and the woman he's with and you will be rewarded. killing him is my reward. the crown jewel is too experimental. converge water into beams of energised plasma. hmm, i think we're gonna need a bigger helmet. one of the tribes of atlantis broke off and settled here when the region was still an inland sea. when the water dried up, they perished along with it. perished? yeah that's great. we're getting close now./ yeah, close to what? dying of thirst?/i'm close to punching your face. a fight club? i didn't know you knew how things work up here. why don;t you look around, we are lost. you see that over there. what is that? na-da. this place's a wasteland. you're the one who call this 'wasteland' a home. this isn't my home. the whole shore doesn't look like this. oh, no. of course not. you also got disgusting cities with sewers emptying out into our ocean and whole mountains made out of thrash. you got great factories, and… ok, ok, ok. point taken. listen. yeah, we got some idiots running the show. but there are good things too right. we got green forest, big mountains, and beautiful lakes. you'd love them. there are like baby oceans./ are you trying to provoke me? i'm just trying to say don't judge a place before you even see it. you judged atlantis on far less. no, no, no. will you just stop it with that. no. your stupid atlantean gps just told you to jump out of an airplane over the middle of the desert. and now we are stranded. if you are the next true king we're doomed. that was awesome. look what i found. what you found?/yeah. check this place out. this is badass! this is the hall of armoury where the legend says where atlann's trident was forged. i don't think they are a legend anymore. i was right. it's real. nothing. of course it's not working. it's been sitting here collecting dust since before the sahara was a desert. man./since before the sahara was a desert. thank you for repeating what i just said. it's completely dried out. you do the best thinking when you're not thinking at all. now hold still. what are you doing?/ we need water. you are the closest source. now hold still. we could've just peed on it. king atlann. in this trident resides the power of atlantis. in the wrong hands, it would bring destruction. in the hands of the true heir, it will unite all our kingdoms above and below. if you seek my power, you must prove your worth. journey beyond the edge of the world to the hidden sea. look inside the bottle for the chartered path. only in the hands of the true king, can he truly see. we can't let orm find this. hey, wait! no… what? shouldn't we have written it down first? i memorised it. didn't you? oh, yeah. what did it just said? something something trident. it's our next stop. i'm starting to think you actually like the surface dwellers. it'd be wrong to judge a place i've never seen before. i'll be right back. don't go anywhere. well, apparently she's right up on the hill in the old castle. i've just learnt something very interesting. pinocchio. you risk our lives on something you read on a children's book? wait it's a book? how about that. we have to go. king nereus, i had hoped that our people had evolved that war with the surface is inevitable. it is the position of the fishermen that when the time comes to make ourselves known to the lands men. it shall be to educate them, not destroy them. i admire your lofty aspirations king… but i suspect they are a cloud of ink hiding the heart of coward how dare you! please, i implore you. your kingdom's bloated philosophers and flaccid moments whose waters have gone stagnant and it sickens me. my king! the king is dead. long live the heir. princess. prepare your armies, your highness. we move against the brine kingdom at once. what are the records saying again? journey beyond the edge of the world to the hidden sea. look into the bottle for the chartered path. only in the hands of the true king, can he truly see. look into the bottle for the chartered path. oh man./what? but how do you know where to point it…/let me see. what's the last line? only in the hands of the true king, can he truly see. he was a great general, but he wasn't a king. how do you know all this stuff?/my pops. he make sure i know my history. none of these guys are kings, except this guy. romulos, first king of rome. only in the hands of the true king, can he truly see. there it is. that's where we're heading./ what? let me see. not bad, for an imbecile huh? not bad at all. go! i'll show you the same mercy you showed my father. and cut you like the fish you are. arthur! mera. they are tracking you./ what? they are tracking you. arthur! stay with me. arthur, wake up. did you steal a boat? are the boats at the marina not for public use? no. those belong to people. those are orm's elite commandoes. the one who lead them isn't atlantean. i've never seen him before./ yeah, i have. he and his father were pirates. he blames me for his father's death. he pick a dangerous line of trade. it's not your fault. it's not how i feels. it was up to me, i let him die, i could save him but i didn't. i know i made an enemy. and he could hurt you, knowing it's my fault. well he's behind us now. it's what lies ahead that should concerns us. the chartered path leads to the kingdom of the trench. that's the same creatures that killed my mother. yes. she was taken there and sacrificed to them. it has become a place of death. i know next to nothing about what's down there. we should turn back. we can still warn the surface, try to prepare them for what's coming. turn back? /look. i learn from a young age about not to show weakness. hey, it's not a problem with my anger and my fist. i'm a blunt instrument and i'm damn good at it. i've done nothing. getting my ass kicked this whole trip. i'm no leader. i'm not a king. i do not work or play well with others. and i”m not going to let you die trying to turn me into something i'm not. you think you're unworthy to lead because we're from two different worlds. but that is exactly why you are worthy. you are the bridge between land and sea. i can see that now. the only question is, can you? the tracking on lady mera is still dark, your highness. vulko, my trusted vizier. you stood by the throne since my father. have you any advise for me since this war begins i've already given it, my king. that i will stand by your decision as always. my decision… to protect it… while you betray it. you think i do not know of your treachery. that you ever made loyal to my mother's bastard son. that you have spent years training him to take the throne from me. do not deny it. i do not./why? i am a pure blood. i have devoted my life to atlantis. you wanted nothing to do with it. you swore to serve the throne. i do serve it. arthur may only be half atlantean, but he is already twice the king you'll ever be. take him. but make sure he has a view. what the hell are these things?/the trench! we're here! there's too many of them!/ come on inside! they re from the depths. they are afraid of lights. get ready to jump. over there! that thing will tear us apart. /we don't have a choice. arthur! mera! mera! mera! mera! arthur./mom. they sacrificed me to the trench. but i survived, fought my way through like you did, and i ended up here./you've been here alone for twenty years? yes. come, sit here. you must forgive me. forgive me for everything. this happened because you had me. not for having you. none of this is your fault. i made a choice. i had to leave to say you. to save your father. tell me, tell me about him. is he…. he still walks to the end of the dock… every morning. …every day. waiting for you. why didn't you ever come back? because the portal that brought you here will never let us return. the trident is the only way back. but it is guarded by the karathen. the creature from our legend is real. it lies beyond the waterfall. we'll go with you. we fight it together. /no. its; too powerful. i've tried many times over the years. the creature will only allow the true king to pass. you're afraid. yes. good. you're ready. atlantis had always had a king. now it needs something more. what could be greater than a king? a hero. a king only fights for its nation. you fight for everyone. you do not belong here. i have guarded the trident against false kings since the beginning and for a thousand years. i have seen the greatest champion tried, and failed. but never have i sense one as unworthy as you. you dare to come here with your tainted mongrel blood to claim atlantis's greatest treasure? so be it. half breed. you thought yourself worthy? you thought yourself a king? you dishonour this place with your presence. you're right. i am a half breed mongrel. but i did not come here because i thought i was worthy. i know i'm not. you understand me./ i do. no mortal has conversed with me since king atlan. who are you? i'm nobody. i came because i have no choice. i came to save my home, and the people that i love. i came because the trident is our only hope. and if that's not good enough, then screw you. no man has ever freed the trident from atlann's grip. should he deemed you unworthy, well i haven't insisted in yours and i am damaged the one true king. remember, the brine are a powerful savage group it will sweep us all and declare their leadership will turn the tide. defeat the brine king and you will command the greatest military might on this planet. today we unite our kingdoms. tomorrow we scorch the surface! rise, atlantians! go! no, we need him. you expect me to address you as your highness? not your highness call me ocean master. you can take my army, you sub belly slut, you will never have my allegiance! so be it! the king has risen. attack! there's too many casualties. we have to stop fighting now. i'll find my father. you must defeat orm. and what if i can't?/ last time you was in his element. this time, make him fight in yours. what's the plan again?/ plan is not to get killed. ya. good plan. not get killed. the trident. he has the trident./ impossible! stand down! let her pass. please, father. he has the trident. i know you think this was necessary. but arthur is king by our most sacred law. and if you turn your back on that now then the atlantis you're fighting for is already dead./ it's true. the half breed wields king atlan's trident./ he …the sea. then the half breed is your king. vulko! come on, he needs our help. we can't. look. the people must bear witness. the trident doesn't change what you are. half breed bastard. atlantis will never accept you as it's king. well then my blood shed will the gods make on your will. yield the throne. finish it./yield the throne. mercy is not our way. maybe you don't know this brother. but i'm not one of you./ do it! kill me!/no! that is enough killing! mother. orm, my son. it's a long story. i'll tell you later. come on. i don't understand. we thought…/ i know. arthur saved me. you're with him?/i am. you're both my children, and i love you so much. but you have been misguided. your father taught you that there were two worlds. he was wrong. the land and the sea are one. my queen. vulko. take him. but make sure he has a view. when you're ready… let's talk. people of atlantis, today we gather in bloodshed. i give you, king arthur, of atlantis. hail to the king! so what do i do now?/ be their king. this is gonna be fun. i love you./ i love you too. you're back./yes. my father was my housekeeper. my mother was a queen. they were never meant to meet. but their love saved the world. they made me what i am. a son of the land, a king of the seas. i am the protector of the deep. i am aquaman.