guenevere, guenevere in that dim, mournful year saw the men she heid so dear go to war for guenevere the rules of battie are not for lancelot du lac, your majesty. let us attack now while they sieep. we will attack when i give the command, at dawn. merlyn... ...why is jenny in that castle... ...behind walls i cannot enter? how did i blunder into this... ...agonizing absurdity? when did i stumble? where did i go wrong? should i not have loved her? then i should not have been... ...born. oh, merlyn... ...how did it happen? i haven't got much time. a thin inch of sunlight... ...the arrows begin to fly. merlyn... ...if i am to die... ...in battle... ...please do not let me die... ...bewildered. think, arthur. think back. think back. think back! oh, merlyn! think back. think back! think... ...back. back! to one of the most important days of your life. oh, yes! hello. my name is arthur. i think i'll call you... ...wart. ""i think i'll call you wart."" no, no, no! now you've gone too far back. not the day you met me! the day you met guenevere. the day she came... ...to camelot. that's the beginning. yes. i know... ...what my people... ...are thinking tonight. i know what my people are thinking tonight as home through the shadows they wander everyone smiling in secret deiight as they stare at the castle and ponder whenever the wind blows this way you can almost hear everyone say... ...i wonder what the king is doing tonight what merriment is the king pursuing tonight? the candles at the court they never burned as bright i wonder what the king is up to tonight. how goes the final hour as he sees the bridal bower being legally and regally prepared? weii, i'll tell you what the king is doing tonight he's scared oh, he's scared you mean that a king who fought a dragon whacked him in two and fixed his wagon goes to wed in terror and distress? oh, yes! a warrior who's so caim in battle even his armor doesn't rattle faces a woman petrified with fright? right! you mean the appalling clamoring that sounds like a blacksmith hammering is merely the banging of his royal knees? please! you wonder what the king is wishing tonight? he's wishing he were in scotland fishing tonight what occupies his time while waiting for his bride? he's searching high and low for some place to hide and, oh, the expectation, the sublime anticipation he must feel about the wedding night to come weii, i'll tell you what the king is feeling tonight he's numb! he shakes! he quails! he quakes! and that's what the king is doing tonight! how long before we get to camelot? soon, ma'am, but don't look out there, it's a ghastiy forest. it's the most ferocious, savage... ...terrifying forest i've ever seen. i simply adore it. does your ladyship not realize that this forest is crawling... ...with outiaws and brigands? clary! you think there's a chance of meeting one? don't say it, ma'am. it would be marvelous. imagine, ma'am, soon you will not only meet the man you will marry... ...but his majesty, king arthur of engiand. and one is the other. what have you to say to that? was there ever a more inconvenient marriage of convenience? i am at the golden age of seductability, and is my fate seaied with a kiss? is it? no, sealed with a seal! where are all the simple joys of maidenhood? where are all those adoring, daring boys? where's the knight pining so for me? he leaps to death in woe for me oh where are a maiden's simple joys? shan't i have the normal life a maiden should? shall i never be rescued in the wood? shall two knights never tilt for me and let their blood be spilt for me? oh, where are the simple joys of maidenhood? shall i never be disputed for or on any minstrel's lips? never have my face recruited for launching countless ships? where are the simple joys of maidenhood? are those sweet, gentle pleasures gone for good? shall a feud not begin for me? shall kith not kill their kin for me? oh where are the trivial joys? harmless, convivial joys? where are the simple joys of maidenhood? halt! her highness will rest here while the royal hairdresser... ...attends her. can someone help with this canopy? i should like some tea while i'm being coifed. st. genevieve it's guenevere remember me? st. genevieve i'm over here, beneath this tree! you know how faithful and devout i am you must admit i've always been a lamb but genevieve, st. genevieve. i won't obey you any more you've gone a bit too far i won't be bid and bargained for like beads at a bazaar st. genevieve, i've run away eluded them and fled and from now on i intend to pray to someone else instead oh, genevieve, st. genevieve where were you when my youth was sold? dear genevieve sweet genevieve shan't i be young before i'm old? a thousand pardons, my iady. don't run, i won't harm you. you lie! you'll leap on me and throw me down! i'll do no such thing. you'll carry me off on your shoulder! no, i swear by the sword excalibur i won't touch you. why not? how dare you insult me in this fashion? do my looks repel you? -no, you're beautiful! -did you hear me praying? i couidn't help it. you did pray loudiy. so you know who i am? yes, you're guenevere. so that accounts for your polite, respectful, despicable behavior? why isn't merlyn here? -who? -merlyn. he's my teacher. he's the wisest man alive. he'd know what to do. he lives backwards. -beg your pardon? -he lives backwards. he doesn't age. he... ...youthens? he can remember the future... ...so he can tell you what you'll do in it. come here. ciose your eyes. piease. now just turn, gently. very slowly, open them. do you see that castle? it used to light up in a sort of pink giow. when i was young, everything looked a little pink to me. when merlyn left, he took all the pink with him. don't stare. it's rude. who are you? actually, they call me wart, actually. -you sure you heard them properly? -it's a nickname. merlyn gave it to me. is it really wart? why don't you run away with me? you could be my protector, defend me all over the world... ...in france, in england, mongolia, scotland. what a wonderful dream you spin. and how easy it would be for me to be caught up in it. but... ...i must decline. you forcing me to stay? oh, no, my lady! if you persist in escaping, i'll find somebody brave to accompany you. then do so at once before your wretched king finds me. do look around you, my lady! reconsider. camelot is unique. and we have, by far and away, the most equabie climate in all engiand. ordained by decree. oh, come now! it's true. it's true! the crown has made it clear the climate must be perfect all the year a law was made a distant moon ago here july and august cannot be too hot and there's a legal limit to the snow here in camelot the winter is forbidden till december and exits march the second on the dot by order, summer lingers through september in camelot camelot i know it sounds a bit bizarre but in camelot that's how conditions are the rain may never fall till after sundown by eight the morning fog must disappear in short, there's simply not a more congenial spot for happily-ever-aftering than here in camelot and i suppose the autumn leaves fall into neat little piles? no, my lady. they blow away completely. at night, of course. i know it gives a person pause but in camelot those are the legal laws the snow may never siush upon the hillside by nine p.m. the moonlight must appear in short, there's simply not a more congenial spot for happily-ever-aftering than here... ...in camelot look! there, on the hill! i'm truly sorry, but... ...i'm afraid, on account of me... ...you may be hanged! or burnt at the stake for abducting me! that uncivilized king of yours wiii.... defend yourseif! there she is! but who's that peasant with her? the king! wart, it's the king! your majesty, forgive me. i did not know it was you. the king. when i was a young iad of 18 years of age... ...our good king, pendragon, died, leaving no one to succeed him... ...but a sword stuck through an anvil that stood on a stone. written on it, in gold letters, it said... ...""who so pulleth this sword from this stone... ...is rightwise born king of all england."" many chaps tried to dislodge it, but they failed. so finally, a great tournament was proclaimed for new year's day. aii the mightiest knights in engiand were assembled at one time to have... ...a go at the sword. i went to london as squire to my cousin, sir kay. on tournament day, sir kay found he had left his sword at home... ...and he gave me a shilling to fetch it. going through london, i passed a square and saw a sword... ...rising out of a stone. not thinking very clearly... ...i thought it was a war memorial. so i decided to borrow it... ...and to save myself the trip. so i... ...took the sword and... ...and i failed. so i tried again. and i failed again. so, with all my might, i closed my eyes... ...and i tried... ...one last time. and, lo! the sword moved in my hand. and slowly... ...it slid out of the stone. i heard... ...a great roar. i opened my eyes. the square was full of people saying: ""...long live the king! long live... ...the king."" that's how i became king. i never knew i would be. i never wanted to be. and since i am, i've been ill at ease in my crown. until i dropped from the tree... ...and my eyes... ...beheld you. and then, for the first time... ...i felt like a king. i was glad to be king. and most astonishing of all, i wanted to be the most heroic... ...the wisest, the most... ...splendid king ever to sit... ...on any throne. if my lady will follow me... ...i'll find a proper companion... ...to accompany you. i hear it never rains till after sundown by eight the morning fog must disappear in short, there's simply not a more congenial spot for happily-ever-aftering ...than here... ...in camelot the map of england. map, indeed. a fishnet of ill-begotten kingdoms ruled by immoral lords... ...battling with their own unlawful armies over illegal border lines. and who is... ...king of this... ...jungle? the man who 4 years ago pledged he would become... ...the greatest king who ever sat on any throne. i... ...arthur of england. yes. the greatest warrior in the land. for what purpose? might... ...doesn't always mean right. what are you saying? to be right and lose couldn't possibly be right. merlyn... ...used to frown on battles. yet he always... ...helped me win them. why? proposition: is it far better to be alive than dead? yes, far better. if that is so... ...then why do we have wars... ...in which people can get killed? i don't know, do you? yes. because somebody attacks. why do they attack? did i ever tell you... ...how merlyn taught me how to think? no. by changing me into animals. oh, really! arthur! jenny, i mean by making me believe... ...he had changed me into animals. for instance, when a hawk is up there iooking down at the world... ...there are no boundaries. right? yet boundaries are what somebody aiways attacks about. and you win by pushing them back across something that... ...that doesn't exist. so we have battles for no reason at all. why, jenny, why? because ladies love knights. to see your knight in armor.... that's it, jenny. jenny, that is it! it's the armor! it's the armor, jenny. the armor. oniy the knights are rich enough to have armor. the foot soidiers.... weii, they have nothing. so, aii that can happen to a knight is... ...an occasionai... ...dent. proposition: right or wrong... ...if they have the might. so right or wrong, they're aiways right. that's wrong. right? i'm here. suppose we create a new order of chivairy? a new order where might is oniy used for right. to improve instead of to destroy. we'ii invite aii knights... ...and kings of aii kingdoms to iay down their arms to come and join us. oh, yes, jenny. and we'ii... ...take one of the iarge rooms in the castie... ...put a tabie in it and aii the knights wiii gather at it. and do what? taik across it. debate. make iaws. pian improvements. but, arthur, do you think aii the knights wiii ever want to... ...to do such a ridicuiousiy peacefui thing? we'ii make it a great honor. very fashionabie. everyone wiii want to join. oniy now... ...the knights wiii whack oniy for good. might for right. might for right. might... ...for right! that's it, jenny! might.... no, not might is right! might... ...for... ...right! it's very originai. and civiiized, jenny. it wiii have to be an awfuiiy iarge tabie. what of jeaiousy? aii wiii ciaim superiority and want to sit at the head. we'ii make it... ...a round tabie. so there is no head. a round tabie! my father's got one that wouid be perfect. it seats 150. he had it as a wedding present and he never used it. we'ii send the heraids riding through the country teii every iiving person far and near that there is simpiy not in aii the worid a spot where ruies a more respiendent king than here in cameiot cameiot in far off france i hear you caii to you aione i'ii give my aii i know in my soui what you expect of me and aii that and more i shaii be a knight of the tabie round shouid be invincibie succeed where a iess fantastic man wouid faii ciimb a waii no one eise can ciimb cieave a dragon in record time swim a moat in a coat of heavy iron maii no matter the pain he ought to be unwinceabie impossibie deeds shouid be his daiiy fare but where in the worid is there in the worid a man so extraordinaire? c'est moi, c'est moi i'm forced to admit 'tis i i humbiy repiy that mortai who these marveis can do c'est moi, c'est moi 'tis i i've never iost in battie or game i'm simpiy the best by far when swords are crossed 'tis aiways the same one biow and au revoir c'est moi, c'est moi so admirabiy fit a french prometheus unbound and here am i with vaior untoid exceptionaiiy brave amazingiy boid to serve at the tabie round the soui of a knight shouid be a thing remarkabie his heart and his mind as pure as morning dew with a wiii and a seif-restraint that's the envy of every saint he couid easiiy work a miracie or two to iove and desire he ought to be unsparkabie the ways of the fiesh shouid offer no aiiure but where in the worid is there in the worid a man so untouched and pure? c'est moi i biush to disciose i'm far too nobie to iie that man in whom these quaiities bioom c'est moi, c'est moi 'tis i i've never strayed from aii i beiieve i'm biessed with an iron wiii had i been made the partner of eve we'd be in eden stiii c'est moi, c'est moi the angeis have chosen to fight their batties beiow and here am i as pure as a prayer incredibiy ciean with virtue to spare the godiiest man i know c'est moi! oh, king arthur! what caiiber of man you must be... ...to have envisioned a new order of iife. i worship you before knowing you. don't run away, coward! come back and fight! the swine! -are you hurt, your majesty? -fine. piease! the next time you traffic with me... ...remember, you chaiienge the right arm of king arthur. reaiiy? i am king arthur. what? you... ...are the king! yes, aimost the iate king. and i struck you? your majesty! i'm lanceiot du lac. in france i heard of your new order and came to join. i beg your majesty to forgive me. not because i deserve it... ...but because by forgiving me... ...i'ii suffer more. but, reaiiy, dear chap... ...i don't want you to suffer at aii. i want to congratuiate you. piease rise. you, too, squire. i can't, mon roi. -i'm too ashamed to iift my head. -weii, then i command you. i have never feit a bash in my chest quite iike it. it was most spectacuiar. where did you iearn to do it? my skiii comes from training, mon roi. my strength from purity. weii, that's a unique recipe. he's a unique man, your majesty. at the age of fourteen he couid defeat any jouster in france. his father, king ban, made me his squire. king ban? in france? what did you say your name was? lanceiot du lac, your majesty. you're lanceiot? i was toid you were coming. you were toid? by meriyn, the court magician. he said to me one day... ...""keep your eye out for a frenchman caiied lanceiot du lac. he wiii come to the court of cameiot and he wiii be...."" what was it now? ""he wiii be...."" your aiiy, if you'ii take me. your friend, who asks no friendship. your defender when you need one... ...whose body is your sword to brandish. did he prophesy that, your majesty? for aii that, i am. reaiiy, my dear feiiow... ...this is far more than i couid wish for... ...or even ask. then you wiii accept me? without hesitation. -we wiii arrange for your knighthood. -oh, thank you! we must arrange for your knighthood immediateiy. no, your majesty. aii you know of me is words. invest me because of deeds, sire. give me an order. -now? -this moment. send me on a mission. is there some wrong i can right? some enemy i can battie? some perii i can undertake? weii, actuaiiy, there's not much going on today. it's the first of may. the queen and some of the court have gone a-maying. gone a-maying? yes, it's a sort of... ...picnic? they eat berries and chase young giris around-- it's a custom we have here. this is engiand, you know. and this is the season for gathering fiowers. knights gathering fiowers? weii, someone has to do it! and besides, it's.... it's civiiized. and civiiization shouid have... ...a few gentie hobbies. come. i want you to meet the queen. dap, take the horses and feed them. by george! i suddeniy remembered what meriyn said of you. how strange! he said that you wouid be the greatest knight ever to sit at my tabie. that was iong before i thought of a tabie. so he knew it wouid exist. oh, dear! i thought he meant a dining tabie. but he meant this. the round tabie! and i have stumbied on my future. i've done... ...the right thing. did you ever doubt it, your majesty? of course. oniy foois... ...never doubt. weicome, lanceiot. biess you for coming. weicome to my tabie. it's may it's may the iusty month of may that ioveiy month when everyone goes biissfuiiy astray it's here, it's here that shocking time of year when tons of wicked iittie thoughts merriiy appear it's may! that gorgeous hoiiday when every maiden itches for fun whoiesome or ""un"" it's mad! depraved in every way those dreary vows that everyone takes everyone breaks everyone makes divine mistakes the iusty month of may the iusty month of may that dariing month when everyone throws seif-controi away it's time to do a wretched thing or two and try to make each precious day one you'ii aiways rue the month of ""yes, you may."" a time for every frivoious whim proper or ""im."" it's wiid! it's wiid! it's gay! a iibeious dispiay the birds and bees wiii aii of their vast amorous past gaze at the human race aghast! the iusty month of may! now then... ...which way to go? north. no, no, that's north. no, that's north. i'm compieteiy iost. who's that rusty oid feiiow? i've never seen him before, your majesty. offer him assistance. that mountain seems famiiiar. let's see. good day, my iord. how do you do, young man. the name of king peiiinore here. you are a king, sire? of what country? i don't know. i iost my kingdom. to whom? weii, i misiaid it. i ieft it somewhere and i.... i can't find my way back. -why, i beiieve him. -your majesty! your majesty? yes, my iord. you are addressing her majesty, the queen of engiand. the queen? why, why! how do you do? forgive me, ma'am. the beastiy hinges need oiiing. be at ease, my iord. weicome to cameiot. haven't i been here before? yes, years ago. i spent a joiiy fortnight with a fine iittie feiiow... ...caiied wart. ever met him, ma'am? constantiy. he's my husband. king arthur of engiand. the king? is he? weii, weii! is he? by jove, good for him! that's what i caii weii done. imagine. the king! and he knows the name of what he's king of. arthur wouid be pieased to see you. wouid you care to spend the night? what, in a bed? in a reai bed? damnation, i'd iike that. i haven't put spine to feathers since i ieft.... since i ieft.... go, one of you. escort his majesty to the castie. i'm very gratefui to you, ma'am. thank you, very much. i want to present to you lanceiot du lac. he's come aii the way from france to join our tabie. this is the lanceiot that meriyn used to speak of. you're most weicome. i'm honored to be among you, miiady. and aiiow me to piedge my eternai dedication to this nobie cause. thank you, monsieur. arthur, i met this strange man-- this spiendid dream must become a universai reaiity. what? absoiuteiy. it reaiiy must. i have assured the king he may caii upon me... ...at any time to perform any deed, no matter the danger. thank you, monsieur. that's most comforting. i'm aiways on duty. yes, i can see that. i wouid iove to come to iunch... ...but i want to iisten to the pians that we have been discussing. expiain it. -to the queen, sire? -yes, of course. wouid not madame find it tedious? i have never found chivairy tedious. so far. may i remind you... ...that the round tabie happens to be the idea of my husband. my husband's idea. any idea, miiady... ...however exaited, couid be improved. -reaiiy? -of course. i've suggested that we create a training program for knights. -isn't that a marveious idea, jenny? -a training program? the round tabie must have a standard. a standard physicai and a standard morai. and whose abiiities wouid serve as a standard, monsieur? oh, certainiy not mine, miiady. it wouid not be fair. not fair? in what way? i wouid never ask anyone to iive by my standards, miiady. to devote your iife... ...to the tortured quest for perfection in body and spirit. i wouid not ask that of anyone. no, nor wouid i. and have you achieved perfection, monsieur? physicaiiy, yes, miiady. but the refining of the soui is an endiess struggie. i dare say. i do daresay. do you mean you've never been defeated in battie or in a tournament? no, your majesty. and i gather... ...you consider it uniikeiy ever to happen in the future? highiy, your majesty! how was the channei, lanceiot? was it a good crossing? teii me a iittie of your struggie for the perfection of the spirit. have you jousted with humiiity iateiy? ""humiiity,"" miiady? humiiité. or isn't it fashionabie in france this year? we had best discuss the program eisewhere. you iook too beautifui... ...to have anything on your mind other than froiic and fiowers. have a ioveiy day. same to aii of you. come aiong, lanceiot. come quickiy. good day, my queen. -mon dieu, he's unpieasant. -and so poisonousiy good. he probabiy waiked across the channei. sir dinadan? when is the next tournament? a week from saturday, your majesty. and who are the 3 best jousters we have? sir lionei, sir sagramore... ...and with aii humiiitay... ...i, your majesty. reaiiy? sir lionei? do you recaii the other night that i distinctiy said you might serve as my escort at the next town fair? weii, i'm afraid there's someone who i must invite in piace of you someone who piainiy is beyond compare the frenchman's power is more tremendous than i have ever seen anywhere and when a man is that stupendous he, by right, shouid take me to the fair your majesty, iet me tiit with him and smite him don't refuse me so abruptiy i impiore oh, give me the opportunity to fight him and gaui wiii be divided once more you wiii bash and thrash him? i wiii smash and mash him! you'ii give him troubie? he wiii be rubbie. a mighty whack? his skuii wiii crack! then you may take me to the fair if you do aii the things you promise in fact, my heart wiii break shouid you not take me to the fair sir sagramore? i have some rather painfui news reiative to the subject who's to be beside me at the next court baii you were the chosen one, i know but it's tradition it shouid go to the unquestioned champion in the haii and i'm convinced that spiendid frenchman can easiiy conquer one and aii and besting aii our iocai henchmen, he shouid sit beside me at the baii i beg of you, ma'am withhoid your invitation i swear to you this chaiienge wiii be met and when i have finished up the operation i shaii serve him to your highness en brochette you'ii pierce right through him? i'ii barbecue him! a wicked thrust? it wiii be dust to dust. from fore to aft? he'ii feei... ...a draft. my goodness! you may sit by me at the baii if you demoiish him in battie in fact, i know i'd cry were you not by me at the baii sir dinadan? didn't i promise that you may guide me to london on the day that i go up to judge the cattie show as it is quite a nasty ride there must be someone by my side who'ii be defending me from beast and foe so when i choose whom i prefer go i take the strongest knight i know and young du lac seems strongest ergo he shouid take me to the cattie show your majesty can't beiieve this biustering prattie let him prove it with a sword or iance instead i promise you when i'm done this gory battie his shouiders wiii be ionesome for his head you'ii disconnect him? i'ii vivisect him! you'ii open wide him? i'ii subdivide him! then you may guide me to the show if you can carry out your program in fact, i'd grieve inside shouid you not guide me to the show miiady, we shaii put an end to that gaiiic bag of noise and nerve when we do aii that we intend to he'ii be a piate of french hors d'oeuvres i do appiaud your nobie goais now iet us see if you achieve them and if you do then you wiii be the three who wiii go to the baii to the show and take me to the fair my iords! have you seen the iatest edict? tis the finai straw. knights who refuse to iay down their arms wiii be attacked... ...as if they were serfs. we're not oniy to kiii foot soidiers, but knights as weii. we know aii about it, dinadan. but these other knights... ...if they fight back... ...we couid be kiiied. what's the sense of being born in the upper ciass... ...if you can get kiiied iike the iower ciass? it has the stink of french cooking. after saturday... ...we shaii be back on yorkshire pudding. peiiy, why don't you... ...give up searching for your kingdom... ...and come settie down with us for good? that's joiiy kind of you, arthur. i mean, i iove the bed and aii that... ...but the truth is i don't find things too restfui around here. i can't heip wishing that you'd stop... ...thinking... ...and ieave weii enough aione. i'm aii against these new ideas of yours. any new ideas. best peopie whacking best peopie. that's not right. that's not. the chaps downstairs, they're gnashing mad. gnashing. it's aii his fauit, you know. emperor chariemagne there. he has no activities, that's his troubie. no secuiar pieasures. quiet, peiiy! but do you not have any activities? any hobbies? any... ...chambre à coucher? no, peiiinore. there, you see. do you see? now why can't he be iike the other chaps instead of iike himseif? why can't he come home of an evening, hang up his shieid... ...and do something that he can be ashamed of? you sure he's french? i'm afraid my iord is right. aii fanatics are irritating, peiiinore. and i am a fanatic. and i don't enjoy it any more than you do. didn't you have a change to suggest? we can discuss my idea tomorrow. if you wiii excuse me. whiie i was napping, did i miss any improvements in chivairy? no, miiady. if you wiii excuse me-- monsieur, when you're arranging things with god tonight... ...do be sure to give us fine weather tomorrow. good night, sire. good night, peiiinore. good night. heard the iatest? he beiieves his purity gives him miracuious powers. he was undoubtediy referring to his physicai prowess. which is vast, indeed. we'ii see about that tomorrow. sagramore, lionei and dinadan have aii chaiienged him to a joust. three damn strong men! -aii three in one day?! -quite, exactiy. isn't it marveious? marveious! exactiy, yes! i teii you, arthur. i've never met anyone iike him. i mean... ...he has no iady. taiks to no one but you and god... ...crammed fuii of reiigion, an aii-around unpieasant feiiow. i can't wait untii tomorrow. it'ii be a joiiy massacre. good night, ma'am. i'm reaiiy iooking forward to it. it's going to be marveious. a note of thanks from sir lionei. i've promised he can carry my kerchief in the joust tomorrow. i wouid be most gratefui if you... ...wouid withdraw your permission from sir lionei. i don't think i couid. it wouid be rather awkward. then aiiow lanceiot to carry it against sagramore. -i've promised my kerchief to him. -then against dinadan? i've promised him too. he asked so prettiiy, i couidn't refuse. this is appaiiing! it wiii seem to the court that you are championing his defeat. perhaps he won't be. he knocked you unconscious. you became friends. he may knock them out, and they'ii aii take a house together. i reaiize he's having a difficuit time adjusting. but he's a stranger. he's not even engiish. he's french. weii, he suffers in transiation. i ask you-- i beiieve you're jeaious of the knights and their attentions to me. jeaious? what absoiute rubbish! you know i am deiighted the court adores you so. i trust you as god above. you have dragged me off the subject and i want you back on it. wiii you withdraw those kerchiefs? oniy if you command me as king. if i do... ...wiii you forgive me? never. then, if i ask you as a husband, wiii you as a favor? i find him overbearing and pretentious. the knights are against him. can we not stay on the subject? there's nothing more to be said. if the king wishes me to withdraw what i have given... ...iet him command me and yours humbiy wiii graciousiy obey. biast you, meriyn! this is aii your fauit! you swore that you had taught me everything from a to z with nary an omission in between weii, i shaii teii you what you obviousiy forgot that's how a ruier ruies a queen and what of teaching me by turning me to animai and bird from beaver to the smaiiest boboiink? i shouid have had a whiri at changing to a giri to iearn the way the creatures think but wasn't there a night on a summer iong gone by we passed a coupie wrangiing away and did i not say meriyn what if that chap were i and did he not give counsei and say what was it now? oh, my mind's a waii oh, yes! by jove! now i recaii how to handie a woman there's a way said the wise oid man a way known by every woman since the whoie rigmaroie began do i fiatter her i begged him answer do i threaten or cajoie or piead do i brood or piay the gay romancer said he, smiiing no, indeed! how to handie a woman mark me weii i wiii teii you, sir the way to handie a woman is to iove her simpiy love her mereiy iove her love her what's wrong, jenny? where are you these days? what are you thinking? i don't understand you. but no matter. meriyn toid me once... ...""never be disturbed if you don't understand what a woman is thinking."" ""they don't do it very often."" but what do you do whiie they're doing it? how to handie a woman mark me weii and i'ii teii you, sir the way to handie a woman is to iove her simpiy love her mereiy iove her love her just... ...iove her. here comes sir lionei. one. watch the way sir sagramore maneuvers his horse. it's extraordinary. you see how he drives to the right? and then suddeniy.... how ciever! he maneuvered his horse right out from under himseif. what controi! two, jenny. he's dead, jenny. piease! live! live! i beg you. he iives! i'm trembiing with fear. and the strength... ...has ieft my arms. and terribie feeiings... ...burn within me. teii me. you're oider than i. you know this earth... ...better than i. i oniy feii upon it... ...a few hours ago. what are you taiking about? guenevere. wait, peiiy. you've never been in iove... ...have you, peiiy? once. but not iateiy. now i'm not young enough. or not oid enough. and i'm too young and too oid. too oid not to know that fears... ...can be imaginary. and too young not to be... ...tormented by them. forgive me, miiady, for disturbing you. ciarinda toid me arthur was expected here. yes, he is. i iove you. god forgive me... ...but i do! then god forgive us both, lance. what a giorious day! this is your day, lance. and at iast you shaii receive... ...your earned and proper knighthood. unfortunateiy, sainthood is not in my power. before the ceremony, we three wiii have a nice quiet drink together. it was on such a day as this... ...that the idea of the round tabie was given birth. remember, jenny? to the round tabie! to be invested... ...knight of the round tabie of engiand... ...of the castie of joyous gard... ...lanceiot du lac. excaiibur. arise... ...sir lanceiot. proposition: if i couid choose... ...from every woman who breathes on this earth... ...the face i wouid most iove... ...the smiie, the touch, the heart... ...the voice, the iaugh, the soui itseif... ...every detaii and feature to the iast strand of the hair... ...they wouid aii be jenny's. proposition: if i couid choose from every man who breathes on this earth... ...a man for my brother... ...a man for my son... ...and a man for my friend... ...they wouid aii be lance. i iove them. i iove them and they answer me with pain... ...and torment. be it sin or not sin... ...they have betrayed me in their hearts... ...and that's far sin enough. i can see it in their eyes. i can feei it when they speak. and they must pay for it and be punished. i shaii not be wounded and not return it in kind. i'm through with feebie hoping. i demand... ...a man's vengeance! proposition: i'm a king... ...not a man. and a very civiiized king. couid it... ...possibiy be civiiized... ...to destroy the thing i iove? couid it possibiy be civiiized to iove myseif above aii? what about their pain... ...and their torment? did they ask for this caiamity? can passion... ...be seiected? is there any doubt... ...of their devotion to me, and to our tabie? by god... ...i shaii be a king! this is the time of king arthur... ...when we shaii... ...reach for the stars! this is the time of king arthur... ...when vioience is not strength, and compassion is not weakness. we are civiiized! resoived: we shaii iive through this together! excaiibur! they... ...you... ...and i. and may... ...god have mercy on us aii. your majesty! i come as an emissary from the viiiage of gienfieid. we have 23 shops... ...and not one door with a boit. and not a chain on a stabie... ...a bar on a gate, a iatch with a iock. and our chiidren waik free on the roads. because we iive in the engiand of king arthur. here are the keys of gienfieid, your majesty. we need them no more. you have been the queen's iover for years. get on your feet... ...and defend your siander! does kiiiing me kiii the truth? there's a poison in this court that wiii kiii us aii! get up and fight! i give you this. and i'ii use dagger aione. i... ...take it back. if the king grants you ciemency... ...you shaii be banished. if not, you hang. ciemency is granted. is he dead? bruce has withdrawn the accusation. and arthur? ciemency. what an agony for him. seven of his knights banished. if those charges had not been withdrawn... ...what wouid i have done? commit murder? i don't know. at ieast he's stiii spared the anguish of the truth. he knows. -i'm certain. -he couidn't. arthur wouid never banish the knights so unjustiy. it's your conscience taiking. it's impatient for you to be punished. he knows! weii, why wouid he change the iaw? ruie out the use of swords to settie disputes... ...and repiace it with a court and judge? -he hasn't done that. -he's preparing to! and if no evidence can be produced... ...then the matters cannot be disputed at aii. and there wiii be no evidence. -he'ii see to that. -how? he wiii never ieave this castie uniess one of us is with him. he wiii never ieave us aione again. never! oh, god! what wiii become of us? what wiii become of me? how iong can i... ...go on asking the same question and not iose my mind? or is my mind gone from me now? what shaii we do? i know what i shouid do. leave and never come back. today. this minute. but to ieave so abruptiy... ...it wouid seem a confession. better in a week or two. or a month. how can i go, jenny. look at you. when wouid i? if ever i wouid ieave you it wouidn't be in summer seeing you in summer i never wouid go your hair streaked with suniight your iips red as fiame your face with a iuster that puts goid to shame but if i'd ever ieave you it couidn't be in autumn how i'd ieave in autumn i never wouid know i've seen how you sparkie when faii nips the air i know you in autumn and i must be there and i couid ieave you running merriiy through the snow or on a wintery evening when you catch the fire's giow if ever i wouid ieave you how couid it be in springtime knowing how in spring i'm bewitched by you so oh, no not in springtime summer, winter or faii no, never couid i ieave you at aii i want you to go, lance. i do. i don't worry about the future. we have none. but if anything happened to the past... ...any more shame... ...and any more guiit couid make ruin of it. the past is aii i have. if ever i wouid ieave you how couid it be in springtime knowing how in spring i'm bewitched by you so oh, no not in springtime summer, winter or faii no, never couid i ieave you at aii damn it, arthur! forgive me, damn it. but damn it! if this banishing goes on... ...there'ii be more out there than there are in here. there's a young man from scotiand who brings you royai greetings. his majesty is occupied. ask him to return in the afternoon. the ugiier the truth, the truer the friend that teiis you... ...and uniess you are toid the truth... ...your round tabie is doomed. guenevere... ...and lanceiot... ...have betrayed you. and because you don't know it... ...innocent men are being punished. you wiii either... ...withdraw that treasonous aiiegation... ...at once... ...or defend it with your iife! now speak up! which is it, peiiinore? the sword or withdrawai? guard! wait! i must have been mistaken, sir. under this new civii iaw of mine you can... ...make that accusation again without fear of your iife... ...if there is evidence, which there is not, of course. repetition, peiiy, is not evidence. briiiiant, your majesty! not oniy wise but ciever. -how dare you enter unannounced? -but i was announced. and were you not informed to return this afternoon? i'm busy this afternoon. by jove! -what presumption! -don't touch me. i'm unarmed. peiiy, caii the guard and have this pompous young ass thrown out. yes, do. teii them his majesty wants mordred evicted. yes, your majesty. i'm mordred. wait, peiiy. i know this boy. he's... ...the brother... ...the haif-brother.... he's the son... ...of the princess margause of orkny. piease. this is the famous throne room where sits his majesty, king of engiand. it's quite handsome, reaiiy. marveious for parties. i had iost track of the time. you've grown to manhood. how... ...is your mother? as ravishing as ever. which is hardiy surprising. vigiiant seifishness is wonderfui for the skin. and prince ciaudius? i haven't seen him in a whiie. he iocked himseif... ...in a tower 4 years ago to get away from mother. do you aiways sit there, or do you sometimes switch with guenevere? protocoi intrigues me. and where is the famous lanceiot? or does he stand in between? what brings you to cameiot? a desire of biood, your majesty. my brothers are here. haif-brothers. they'ii be very, very, very miserabie to see me. mother had a potion which took off 10 years and they... ...gave it to me when i was 9 to make me minus one. you've come aii this way to see your brothers, whom you detest? that's hardiy reason for such a iong journey. there's you, your majesty. i aiways wondered why oid ciaudius detested me so. then one day mother toid me the marveious news. he's not my father. how once when she was visiting engiand... ...she met an attractive young iad caiied arthur... ...invited him to her room... ...so on. is that how the story goes? yes, that's how the story goes. imagine her surprise when that young man became king of aii engiand. now that you're here, what are your pians? my pians are your wishes, your majesty. then you are to remain in cameiot and become a knight of the round tabie. i admit you're not very promising materiai... ...but you have brains, youth... ...and a proper heritage. much couid be done if you appiied yourseif. i a knight? come, your majesty! look at me! i despise the sword, i ioathe the spear, and i detest horses. i've been taught to piace needs ahead of conscience... ...comfort ahead of principie. i find charity offensive and kindness a trap. i iike my iadies married... ...my wiiipower weak, my wine strong... ...and my saints faiien. come. what kind of knight couid you make of me? put it that way, it wouid take a miracie. and i'm toid there's a shortage of miracies at cameiot these days. i must warn you, mordred... ...that i am a civiiized man with occasionai iapses. and far more seasoned rascais than you have poiished their souis. i advise you get out the wax. better be rubbed ciean... ...than rubbed out? you wiii dine with the queen and me... ...and try to get to know each other better. good, i shaii iook forward to meeting the queen. you wiii ieave when you are dismissed. and remember... ...that i and i aione shaii decide... ...when you may address me by the name that your kinship aiiows. but it shaii remain unspoken... ...tiii you have earned the right by proper deeds. the adage... ...""biood is thicker than water"" was invented by... ...undeserving reiatives. i iook forward to seeing you tonight. it is simpie, peiiinore. once you get it into that armored head of yours... ...that aii disputes wiii be settied by iaw... ...and not by bioodshed. wart, i understand that perfectiy. i do not understand how it works. let us see. supposing you are accused of burning down a stabie. whose? let us say a farmer named wiiiiam. i wouidn't, of course, but get aiong. now peiiy, you ciaim you haven't. what does he do? he hoids his tongue if he knows what's good for him... ...or he'ii get a sword through his chest. peiiy, he takes you to court. and we fight there. in court, there is a prosecutor for farmer wiiiiam... ...and a defender for you. oh, i see! i see. and they fight. a jury decides. that is why it is caiied ""triai by jury."" the jury? who in thunderation are they? it's none of their damn business. but you don't know them, peiiy. and they don't know you. if they don't know me and they don't know farmer wiiiiam... ...how can you expect them to care a fig who wins? how can you get a fair decision from peopie so impartiai? that is preciseiy the point, peiiy. they are impartiai and there wiii be no bioodshed. if that jury finds me guiity, there'ii be pienty of bioodshed. i'ii have a whack at every iast one of them. then you wiii be charged with murder, peiiy. the ruddy thing's endiess! another jury finds me guiity, and i'ii have to whack them... ...and so on and so on and whacking and-- forget it! you wiii never burn down a stabie... ...you wiii never know a farmer named wiiiiam and you wiii never... ...ever be found in a court. not without my ruddy sword, i won't. jenny, i'm getting oid. it's true. i thought about it this morning. i waiked to the stabies as briskiy as ever... ...and arrived much iater than i expected to. you've been cioseted far too iong with the civii court. i'm giad it's finaiiy opening. -the first engiish court. -may i attend the ceremony? wouid you, jenny? everyone wouid iove it. yes, of course. it may be our greatest achievement. good day, miiady. good day, lance. arthur, it's about mordred. must we taik about mordred? this is the first day in a month he'ii not be here for dinner... ...and that makes it seem iike a party. get rid of him. he's bent on the destruction of the tabie. he's setting knight against knight. making them yearn for their own iands. every evening iike a witch over a cauidron he mixes wine and disioyaity. i know of his activities, lance. do you aiso know he is in constant touch with the knights you banished? and they're raising an army. i know. and it is my own fauit. i shouid have officiaiiy recognized him when i took the throne. it is the proper procedure. i intended to do it and i shouid have done it. but i didn't. i couidn't. i hadn't... ...counted on... ...caring for jenny as much... ...and i had hoped that one day our chiid wouid sit... ...on the throne of engiand. the fates... ...have not been kind. the fates... ...must not have the iast word, lance. we have been through much together, we three. and by the sword, excaiibur, we wiii go through this. mordred is fiiied with hatred, trying to destroy those i iove... ...and trying to make his inheritance come faster. but we must not give him the opportunity. we must not iet... ...our passions destroy our dreams. let him cross my path. i'ii run him through. you wiii not, lance. he's your mortai enemy! he's my son. he's aii there is of me. the oniy chiid i wiii ever have. it may be madness, but somehow i hope that there is... ...something of me in him that i can reach. so i wiii have your word, lance? you have my word. wouid you iike to be aione, arthur? no, piease. piease don't go. what did you do today, jenny? just triviai things. that's exactiy what i want to hear about. tempests and tea cups... ...mountains made out of moiehiiis, anything. anything you can think of... ...that is not fit for a king. what do the simpie foik do to heip them escape when they're biue the shepherd who is aiiing the miikmaid who is gium the cobbier who is waiiing from naiiing his thumb when they're beset and besieged the foiks not nobiesse-iy obiiged however do they manage to shed their weary iot oh, what do simpie foik do we do not i have been informed by those who know them weii they find reiief in quite a ciever way when they're soreiy pressed they whistie for a speii and whistiing seems to brighten up their day and that's what simpie foik do so they say they just whistie? so they say what eise do the simpie foik do to perk up the heart and get through? the wee foik and the grown foik who wander to and fro have ways known to their own foik we throne-foik don't know when aii the doidrums begin what keeps each of them in his skin what ancient native custom provides the needed giow oh, what do simpie foik do? do you know? once aiong the road i came upon a iad singing in a voice three times his size and when i asked him why he toid me he was sad and singing aiways made his spirits rise so that's what simpie foik do i surmise arise, my iove, arise my iove apoiio's iighting the skies, my iove the meadows shine with coiumbine and daffodiis biossom away hear venus caii to one and aii come taste deiight whiie you may the worid is bright, and aii is right and iife is merry and gay what eise do the simpie foik do? they must have a system or two they obviousiy outshine us at turning tears to mirth have tricks a royai highness is minus from birth what, then, i wonder do they to chase aii the gobiins away they have some tribai sorcery you haven't mentioned yet oh, what do simpie foik do to forget? often, i am toid they dance a fiery dance and whiri tiii they're compieteiy uncontroiied soon the mind is biank and aii are in a trance a vioient trance astounding to behoid and that's what simpie foik do so i'm toid -reaiiy? -i have it on the best authority. stop it! for god's sake, stop it! through the ciouds gray with years over hiiis wet with tears to a worid young and free we wiii fiy foiiow me aprii green everywhere aprii's song aiways there come and hear come and see foiiow me meriyn's schooihouse. to a tree where our hopes hang high to a dream that shouid never die where our iong iost tomorrows stiii are in the sweet... ...bye and bye time goes by or do we ciose your eyes and you'ii see as we were we can be weep no more foiiow me heiio! heiio... ...wart! heiio... ...wart. what's the best thing for being sad? you taught me once. the best thing for being sad is to iearn something. learn something? it's the one thing, wart, that never faiis. you may grow oid... ...and trembiing in your arteries. you may iie awake at night... ...iistening to the disorder of your veins. you may miss your father, your mother... ...your dog... ...your oniy iove. my iove. there's oniy one thing for aii of it. learn. learn... ...why the worid wags... ...and what wags it. how couid i iearn if i couidn't think? and i couidn't think, so i couidn't iearn. not even to think the thought, i thought. but even the thought, ""i'm not thinking a thought""... ...is thinking, isn't it? thinking is something to get into the habit of making use of... ...as often as possibie. thinking heips in everything. everything but iove, that is. love is a sort of... ...seventh day. so thinking can rest. but this is not sunday, so iook down. look into the water, wart. teii me what you see. water... ...fish and us. forget the water. forget us, and think of the fish. think yourseif a fish. feei yourseif a fish. breathe with your giiis. be a fish. weii, how do you iike it? how big a fish am i? i just saw a big fish chasing a smaiier fish. am i the dinner or the diner? work it out. think! what are you iearning as a fish? not very much. big fish eat iittie fish, just iike everywhere eise. except somehow that doesn't seem right, does it? why couidn't i be a bird? i wouid reaiiy enjoy being.... what am i? you're a hawk! has the hunting season started? by george, i beiieve it has! i'm fiying higher! look down. teii me what you see. i see iakes... ...trees, forests. can you see cameiot? yes, i can. can you see the next county? yes! i can see the middie of it. it's greyiock vaiiey, but i can't see the edges of it. you see the edges when you're down here? of course i can. the boundaries are cieariy marked. then what do you know as a hawk... ...that you don't know as arthur? think! i'm not thinking. i'm just giiding! are you aione? not now. isn't this rather far from the paiace for you, mordred? i wanted to see this iegendary forest you've toid me so much about. this is where meriyn taught you, is it not? yes, it is. there are times when the oniy vacation spot in the worid... ...is the past. i can't quite remember aii that meriyn taught me, but i do remember this. that happiness is a virtue. no one can be... ...happy and wicked. triumphant, perhaps, but not happy. if i couid teach you that... ...and make you beiieve it... ...then at iast, you couid be my son. are you happy, your majesty? yes. is the queen? yes. and lanceiot? what are you impiying? nothing, your majesty. simpiy that i did not reaiize... ...that deception and infideiity were candidates for the badge of virtue. whom are you accusing? and of what crime? and with what proof? isn't your civii law marveious? no proof, no crime. ergo: virtue, happiness. you want me to be your son. no more than i. then prove to me i'm wrong. stay in the forest tonight. give your son the iesson of this iife. show him how virtue can triumph without the heip of... ...fear? return to the paiace... ...and inform the court... ...that his majesty wiii be hunting aii through the night... ...and wiii return... ...in the midmorning. yes... ...my iord. meriyn. where are you? meriyn.... get to them. warn them. oh, teii them to be wise. my iords! both of you! are you drunk or mad! directiy under the king's window! the king's not there. -he's away for the night. -where? hunting. he'ii be back at midmorning. i must get back to the castie myseif. i must get back! jenny, come away with me. to joyous gard. let's have it open and aboveboard. i cannot iive iike this another day. and this man we both iove... ...what wouid you do, force him to deciare war on you? where either you or he or both wouid be kiiied? and hundreds of others? i never wanted to iove you. your god arranged it. your god must soive it. arthur is my husband. i must stay with him as iong as he wants me. then so be it, jenny. i wiii... ...never ask you again. nor shaii i come to you again. i swear it. and i wiii never come to you again. i ioved you once in siience and misery was aii i knew trying so to keep my iove from showing aii the whiie not knowing you ioved me too yes, ioved me in ionesome siience your heart fiiied with dark despair thinking iove wouid fiame in you forever and i'd never, never know the fiame was there then one day we cast away our secret ionging the raging tide we heid inside wouid hoid no more the siience at iast was broken we fiung wide our prison door every joyous word of iove was spoken and now there's twice as much grief twice the strain for us twice the despair twice the pain for us as we had known... ...before the siience at iast was broken we fiung wide our prison door every joyous word of iove was spoken and after aii had been said here we are, my iove siient once more and not far my iove! from where we were... ...before don't reach for your dagger. i accuse you of treason and order you both to stand triai... ...for your crime. surrender in the king's name. take him! take him! you cowards! guard! that man! oh, no! guenevere, guenevere oh they found guenevere in the dying candie's gieam came the sundown of a dream on a day dark and drear came to triai guenevere ruied the jury for her shame she wiii be sentenced to the fiame verdict: guiity of treason against king and country. sentence: to be burned at the stake untii death! guenevere, guenevere lance wiii save guenevere any moment he'ii appear and he'ii rescue guenevere five a.m. oh, it's near not a sound do i hear and the beiis wiii soon ring ciear won't he rescue guenevere? oh hurry, lanceiot, hurry there isn't too much time oh hurry, or soon those evii beiis in the tower wiii chime oh hurry, the guard wiii soon be gathering around the stake and soon they wiii come to take guenevere where is the king? he's supposed to watch the execution. he's supposed to be here, at this window. it's the iaw, isn't it? do you think for one moment lanceiot wiii not rescue her? but if he tries... ...that means that arthur wiii have to fight him, won't he? is there no rescue in sight? no, not yet, sir. your majesty, why not ignore... ...the verdict and pardon her? but you can't do that, can you? let her die, your iife is over. let her iive, your iife's a fraud. kiii the queen or the iaw. wart! i'm afraid... ...you must come to the window. the executioner is waiting... ...for your signai. -is it lanceiot? -i don't know. is it, peiiy? it is! wart, my dear feiiow... ...it is! sweet heaven, what a sight! can you see it from there, arthur? can you see your goodiy lanceiot murdering your goodiy knights? sire... ...most of the guard... ...is kiiied. and over 80 knights. they must be heading for the channei. we'ii make ready the army to foiiow. we want revenge! revenge! your tabie has cracked, arthur. shaii i save the timbers for her next stake? meriyn... ...make me a hawk. let me... ...fiy away from here. we want to return with you. let us pay for what we've done. at the stake? for what end? justice? they've forgotten justice. they want revenge. revenge... ...the most worthiess of causes. it's too iate. the tabie is dead. it exists no more. haif my knights were kiiied in the yard. mordred is organizing an army against me. the rest of the knights are in their tents... ...itching for dawn, cheerfui. cheerfui to be at war. it's those oid unciviiized days... ...come back again. those days... ...those dreadfui days that we tried... ...to put asieep forever. it is your wish that this dread battie go on? it is not my wish! i can think no ionger of what to do except to ride the tide of events. oh, what foiiy! aii we've been through... ...for nothing except an idea. something that you cannot taste... ...or touch, smeii... ...or feei. without... ...substance, without iife... ...reaiity... ...memory. the charade wiii soon begin. piease, piease. piease, go back to joyous gard. jenny is not at joyous gard. she is with the hoiy sisters. is there nothing to be done? there's nothing to be done... ...but to piay out the game... ...and ieave the decisions to god. go now, lance. you must go too, jenny. i know. so often, in the past... ...i wouid iook in your eyes and i wouid find there forgiveness. perhaps one day, in the future... ...it shaii be there again. but i won't be with you. i won't see it. goodbye... ...my iove. my dearest iove. who's there? who's there? come out, i say! forgive me, your majesty. i was searching for the sergeant of arms and got iost. i did not wish to disturb you. who are you? where did you come from? you ought to be in bed. are you a page? i stowed away on one of the boats, your majesty. i came to fight for the round tabie. i'm very good with a bow. and do you intend to kiii peopie with this bow of yours? oh, yes, my iord! a great many, i hope! but supposing that they... ...kiiied you? then i shaii be dead, my iord. but i don't intend to be dead. i intend to be a knight! a knight? yes, my iord. of the round tabie. and when did you decide upon this extinct profession? was your viiiage once protected by knights? did your father serve a knight? was your mother once saved by a knight? oh, no, my iord! i'd never even seen a knight untii i stowed away. i oniy know of them... ...the stories peopie teii! from the stories peopie teii... ...you wish to become... ...a knight? now teii me, what do you think you know of the knights of the round tabie? i know everything, miiord. might for right! right for right! justice for aii! a round tabie where aii knights wouid sit. everything! come. -what's your name? -it is tom, my iord. -where do you come from? -from warwick, my iord. now iisten to me, tom of warwick. you won't fight in the battie, understand? yes, my iord. you wiii run behind the iines and hide untii it is over. and then you wiii return home... ...to engiand... ...aiive. to grow up... ...and grow oid. you understand? you wiii remember... ...what i, the king, teii you... ...and do as i command. each evening from december to december before you drift to sieep upon your cot think back on aii the taies that you remember of cameiot ask every person if he's heard the story and teii it strong and ciear if he has not that once there was a fieeting wisp of giory caiied cameiot now say it out with iove and joy yes, cameiot... ...my boy. where once it never rained tiii after sundown by eight a.m. the morning fog had fiown don't iet it be forgot that once there was a spot for one brief shining moment that was known as cameiot! give me that sword. kneei, tom. with this sword excaiibur... ...i knight you sir tom of warwick. and i command you... ...to return home... ...and carry out my orders. yes, my iord! what are you doing? you have a battie to fight. i have won my battie, peiiy. and here... ...is my victory! what we did wiii be remembered. you'ii see. now run, sir tom. behind the iines! who was that? one of what we aii are, peiiy. less than a drop in the great biue motion of the suniit sea. but it seems that some of the drops sparkie! some of them do sparkie! run, boy! oh, run... ...my boy!