"is it worth the waiting for if we live till 84? "all we ever get is gruel "every day we say our prayer will they change the bill of fare? "still we get the same old gruel! "there’s not a crust, not a crumb can we find "can we beg, can we borrow or cadge? "but there’s nothing to stop us from getting a thrill "when we all close our eyes and imagine "food, glorious food! "hot sausage and mustard! "while we’re in the mood cold jelly and custard! "pease pudding and saveloys! what next is the question "rich gentlemen have it, boys: indigestion! "food, glorious food! "we’re anxious to try it "three banquets a day "our favourite diet! "just picture a great big steak fried, roasted or stewed "oh, food! wonderful food! "marvellous food! glorious food! "food, glorious food! "don’t care what it looks like: "burned, underdone, crude "don’t care what the cook’s like "just thinking of growing fat "our senses go reeling "one moment of knowing that full-up feeling! "food, glorious food! "what wouldn’t we give for "that extra bit more "that’s all that we live for "why should we be fated to do nothing but brood "oh, food magical food "wonderful food marvellous food "heavenly food beautiful food "glorious food!" "for what you are about to receive "may the lord make you truly thankful "amen" please, sir, i want some more. what? please, sir... ...i want some more. more? - "catch him! - "snatch him! - "hold him! - "scold him! - "pounce him! trounce him! - "pick him up and bounce him!" "wait! "before we take the lad to task "may i be so curious as to ask his name? "oliver" oliver twist, mr. bumble. - you named him so yourself. - so that’s who he is! "oliver! oliver! never before has a boy wanted more! "oliver! oliver! "won’t ask for more when he knows what’s in store "there’s a dark, thin, winding stairway without any banister "which we'll throw him down, and "feed him on cockroaches served in a canister "oliver! oliver! what will he do when he’s black and blue? "he will rue the day somebody named him oliver! "oliver, oliver never before has a boy wanted more! "oliver! oliver! "won’t ask for more when he knows what’s in store "there’s a long, thin, winding stairway without any banister "which we’ll throw him down, and "feed him on cockroaches served in a canister "oliver! oliver! "what, heavens pray, will the governors say? "they will lay the blame on the one who named him "oliver!" out! "one boy "boy for sale "he’s going cheap "how much, then? - "only seven guineas - "how much? "that or thereabouts "fine boy "boy for sale "he’s yours to keep "for 1,000 pennies "you can work it out "that’s slightly under four guineas knocked down from seven guineas - "three pounds, ten shillings - "three pounds what, sir? "certainly not, sir "any advance on three pounds ten, then? "going, going "gone "i could not say he isn’t very greedy" "i dare not "i'd be telling you a tale "one boy "boy for sale "come take a peek "have you ever seen as nice a boy for sale?" - how much did you say? - only three guineas, mr. sowerberry. - a bargain, if ever there was one. - i was looking for a boy. all right, bring him in, mr. bumble. my love, i said we might consider taking this boy... ...to help in the shop. dear me. he’s very small. he is rather small, there’s no denying, but he'll grow, mrs. sowerberry. i dare say he will. on our bittles and our drink! these workhouse boys always cost more than they’re worth. - where did he come from? - mother came to us destitute. she gave birth to him and promptly died, leaving no forwarding name or address. here he is, yours for three guineas. cash on delivery. no, cash upon liking. a week on approval. if he works hard on a little food, then we’ll keep him. he can help put the shutters up. do you hear, now? - then he can clean around the house. - i'll look after him, missus. my dear, it occurred to me, he’ll make a delightful coffin-follower. that expression of melancholy. interesting, don’t you think so, my love? i don’t mean a regular coffin-follower to attend grown-up people, no... ...just at children’s funerals. a mute in proportion, so to speak? precisely. a superb effect, don’t you think? do you think you could look like that gentlemen up there? perhaps, if i had a tall hat. look, it’s oliver! - noah, come on. - no. how’s your mother, workhouse? you leave my mother out of it. she’s dead. what did she die of? shortage of breath? you’d better not say anything about her to me. don’t be cheeky, workhouse. your mother, she was a nice one, a regular right-down bad one. what did you say? it’s a good thing she died when she did "cause she’d be in prison doing hard labour. help! get away! get away from him! what’s going on down here? what are you trying to do, wake the dead? it’s you! get out of here! he started it! come here, you! - quick! - hurry up. oh, dear! i'm going off. water! noah, run over to the workhouse. get mr. bumble. tell him to come quick. where is he? where is the young rascal? - oliver? - yes, i'm here. - do you know this voice? - yes, i do. ain't you afraid of it? ain’t you trembling when i speak? no, l’m not! - he’s gone mad to speak to you like that. - it’s not madness, it’s meat. - meat? - meat, ma'am! you overfed the boy. you raised an artificial spirit in the lad unbecoming to his station in life. this wouldn’t have happened if you’d fed him gruel. l’d be glad to give you the recipe. - having a rest, mr. bumble? - he’s sitting on oliver. - quite right. we must all sit on oliver. - you’ve been drinking again? - i met a friend in the cemetery. - help! who’s in there? that coffin should not have been occupied until tomorrow. it’s reserved for a very important client. stand back! - what’s your explanation, you scallywag? - he called my mom a name. and what if he did, you ungrateful wretch? she deserved what he said and worse. - she didn’t! - she did! it’s a lie. - hold your tongue, boy. - put him down in the cellar. it’s really quite comfortable. stay there till we decide what to do with you. here’s your baggage, workhouse. three pounds, indeed! you can take him back. "where is love? "does it fall from skies above? "is it underneath the willow tree "that i've been dreaming of? "where is she "who i close my eyes to see? "will i ever know the sweet "hello" "that’s meant for only me? "who can say where she may hide? "must i travel far and wide? "till i am beside the someone who "i can mean something to "where "where "is love? "every night i kneel and pray "let tomorrow be the day "when i see the face of someone who "i can mean something to "where "where "is love?" please help me. please! what you staring at? haven’t you never seen a toff? no, never. i’m sorry. i didn’t... that’s all right. - hungry? - yes, i am. i’ve come a long way. l’ve been walking for seven days. - been running away from the beak? - the what? don’t say you don’t know what a "beak" is? it’s a bird’s mouth, isn’t it? my eyes, how green can you get! for your information, a beak is a magistrate. - who you running from, your old man? - no, l’m an orphan. l’ve come to london to make my fortune. you have, have you? got any lodgings? - money? - not a farthing. do you live in london? what the... i suppose you want someplace to sleep tonight. do you know of anywhere? i know a respectable old gentleman who'll give you lodgings for nothing. and never ask for the change, if a gentleman he knows introduces you. don’t you know me? he must be a very kind old gentlemen. yes, he’s very kind. and l’m a particular favourite of his. now, if you’re coming along, l’d better know who you are. my name’s oliver twist. and mine’s jack dawkins. better known as the artful dodger. pleased to meet you, mr. dodger. sure the old gentleman won’t mind? mind? "consider yourself at home consider yourself one of the family "l’ve taken to you so strong it’s clear we’re going to get along "consider yourself well in consider yourself part of the furniture "there isn’t a lot to spare "who cares? whatever we got we share! "if it should chance to be "we should see some harder days "empty-larder days why grouse? "always a chance we’ll meet somebody to foot the bill "then the drinks are on the house! "consider yourself our mate we don’t want to have no fuss "for after some consideration, we can state "consider yourself one of us! - "consider yourself - "at home? - "consider yourself - "one of the family? - "we’ve taken to you - "so strong? "it’s clear we’re going to get along - "consider yourself - "well in? "consider yourself part of the furniture "there isn’t a lot to spare "who cares? whatever we got, we share "nobody tries to be la-di-da and uppity there’s a cup o" tea for all "it’s wise to be handy with a rolling pin when the landlord comes to call! "consider yourself our mate we don’t want to have no fuss "for after some consideration we can state "consider yourself one of us! "consider yourself at home consider yourself one of the family - "we’ve taken to you so strong - "it’s clear we’re going to get along" hammer up, hammer down! lift, drop! lift, down! up! not to slow boys. there you go. hammer up, hammer down! lift, down! up! out! down! lift! drop! hammer up! hammer down! lift, down! help! "if it should chance to be "we should see some harder days "empty-larder days why grouse? "always a chance we’ll meet somebody to foot the bill "then the drinks are on the house! "consider yourself at home consider yourself one of the family "we’ve taken to you so strong it’s clear we’re going to get along "consider yourself well in consider yourself part of the furniture "there isn’t a lot to spare "who cares? whatever we got we share! "nobody tries to be la-di-da and uppity there’s a cup o" tea for all "it’s wise to be handy with a rolling pin when the landlord comes to call! "consider yourself our mate we don’t want to have no fuss "for after some consideration we can state consider yourself "one of us!" it’s dodger! coming up. dodger. oliver! up you go. - not again. - get out. fagin, i brought my new friend to see you. oliver twist. sir. i hope i shall have the honour of your intimate acquaintance. we’re glad to see you, oliver. aren’t we, my dears? yes, fagin! give me back my things. leave it! leave him alone! take off the sausages. lay a place at the table for mr. twist. dodger tells me you’ve come to london to seek your fortune. yes, sir. we must see what we can do to help you, mustn’t we? - thank you. - these sausages are mouldy! shut up and drink your gin! you’re staring at the pocket handkerchiefs, my dear? we just hung them up ready for the wash, that’s all. - is this a laundry then, sir? - yeah, a laundry! not exactly. a laundry would be a very nice thing indeed. but our line of business pays a little better. don’t it, boys? you see, oliver... "in this life, one thing counts: in the bank, large amounts! "l’m afraid these don’t grow on trees you’ve got to pick a pocket or two "you’ve got to pick a pocket or two, boys "you’ve got to pick a pocket or two "large amounts don’t grow on trees you’ve got to pick a pocket or two" let’s show oliver how to do it, my dears. just a game, oliver, just a game. "why should we break our backs stupidly paying tax? "better get some untaxed income: better pick a pocket or two "you’ve got to pick a pocket or two, boys "you’ve got to pick a pocket or two "why should we all break our backs? "better pick a pocket or two "robin hood, what a crook: gave away what he took "charity’s fine, subscribe to mine get out and pick a pocket or two "you’ve got to pick a pocket or two, boys "robin hood was far too good "get out and pick a pocket or two "take a tip from bill sikes: he can whip what he likes "i recall, he started small he had to pick a pocket or two "you’ve got to pick a pocket or two, boys "you’ve got to pick a pocket or two "we could be like old bill sikes if we pick a pocket or two "dear old gent passing by something nice takes his eye "everything’s clear, attack the rear! get in and pick a pocket or two "you’ve got to pick a pocket or two, boys "you’ve got to pick a pocket or two "have no fear, attack the rear get in and pick a pocket or two "when i see someone rich both my thumbs start to itch "only to find some peace of mind i have to pick a pocket or two "you’ve got to pick a pocket or two, boys "you’ve got to pick a pocket or two "just to find some peace of mind "we have to pick a pocket or two!" put them all back in the box. all of them. come here! good boy. what a crook! we’ve all been hard at work today, haven’t we, my dears? what have you got, dodger? - a couple wallets. - lined? only the best. not as heavy as they might be. but, very nicely made. - ingenious workman, ain't he? - does he make these himself? - with his own lily-white hands. - what have you got, charlie? - a couple of wipes. - very good ones. but you haven’t embroidered them too well though, charlie. we’ll have to pick the initials out with a needle. - you'll need to learn how to do this, too. - yeah, the trademark. in the meantime, you must learn how to make wallets. - like the dodger. would you like that? - yes, if you'll teach me. certainly, my boy, no fee. just do as dodger and the others do. make them your models, especially dodger. he’s going to be a right little bill sikes. who’s bill sikes, mr. fagin? he’s a very clever gentleman. you’ll meet him tomorrow. maybe now. is it possible, by chance... ...that my kerchief is protruding from my pocket? - yes. i can just see the edge. - can you? see if you can take it out without my feeling it... ...like you saw the others do. "you’ve got to pick a pocket or two, boys "you’ve got to pick a pocket or two" is it gone? yes, mr. fagin. look! well, that’s a surprise, i must say. you’re a clever boy, oliver. i never saw a sharper lad. here’s a shilling for you. i have to go to the bank. bedtime, all of you! there’s a hard day’s work ahead! put up the shutters. where do i sleep, sir? over here, my dear. settle down! dodger, take your legs off his bed. where’s your manners? here, my dear, have a good sleep. if you go on... ...the way you’ve started... ...you will be the greatest man of all time. sweet dreams, oliver. sweet dreams. goodnight, sir. "you’ve got to pick a pocket or two, boys "you’ve got to pick a pocket or two" is he here? mr. sikes. has he come yet? nancy’s inside waiting for him. - how’s business? nice and brisk? - don’t burn your fingers, will you? i never do, my dear. not if i can help it. nancy! he’s back! he’s here! beautiful. you’ve done well, bill. all one job? such a professional. now, bill... carry cash? at this time of night? all those thieves and robbers lurking in dark alleys? i wouldn’t dare. besides, l’ve got to price it first. nancy’s waiting. give you a good supper. tomorrow, bill. my word on it. "small pleasures, small pleasures "who would deny us these? "gin toddies, large measures no skimping if you please! "i rough it, i love it life is a game of chance "i never tire of it "leading a merry dance "if you don’t mind having to go without things - "it’s a fine life! - "it’s a fine life! "though it ain’t all jolly pleasure outings it’s a fine life! "it’s a fine life! "when you’ve got someone to love you forget your care and strife "let the prudes look down on us let the wide world frown on us "it’s a fine, fine life! "it’s a fine, fine life! "who cares if straight-laces sneer at us in the street? "fine airs and fine graces don’t have to sin to eat "we wander through london who knows what we may find? "there’s pockets left undone on many a behind "if you don’t mind taking it like it turns out it’s a fine life! "keep the candle burning until it burns out it’s a fine life! "though you sometimes do come by the occasional black eye "you can always cover one till he blacks the other one "but you don’t dare cry "no flounces, no feathers no frills and furbelows "all winds and all weathers ain’t good for fancy clothes - "these trappings - "these tatters "these we can just afford "what future? "what matters? we’ve got our bed and board "if you don’t mind dealing with fagin it’s a fine life! "it’s a fine life! "though diseased rats threaten to bring the plague in - "it’s a fine life! - "it’s a fine life! "and the grass is green and dense on the right side of the fence "we take good care of it that we get our share of it "and we don’t mean pence "if you don’t mind having to like or lump it it’s a fine life! "though there’s no tea-sipping and eating crumpets "it’s a fine life! "it’s a fine life! "not for me, the happy home "happy husband, happy wife "though it sometimes touches me for the likes of such as me "mine’s a fine, fine life!" bull’s-eye, come here! worth all the rest put together. can i help it? this is my private treasure. my little pleasure. a cup of coffee... ...and a quick count-up. i mean, who’s gonna look after me in my old age? would you, birdie? will you? why are you watching me? quick! speak out! i want to know every detail you saw! l’m sorry. - did you see where the box was? - i don’t think so, sir. - be sure! - quite sure! if you’re sure, then l’m sure. of course, i knew all along. i didn’t mean to frighten you. brave boy, oliver. did you see any of those pretty things, my dear? yes, sir. they’re mine, oliver. my little treasure. all i got to live on in my old age. a terrible thing... ...old age. yes, sir. i’m sorry. can i go back to sleep now, sir? certainly, my boy, go to sleep. pleasant dreams. same to you, sir. sauce boat, george iil, scroll handle, £5. tiara, george il, rose-cut diamond paste, half a crown. l’m coming. bill, your breakfast is ready. for god’s sake. i'll warm it up for your supper. go down to fagin’s and get the cash, will you? all right. i am trying to sleep. you do love me, don’t you? of course i do! i live with you, don’t i? that bit’s for me, emmett fagin. eat, eat, eat. appetite. come on, finish your breakfast, it’s time for work. hurry up, you’ll miss the morning trade. - ain’t there no more sausages? - you want supper tonight? who wants some bull’s-eyes? wait a minute! one at a time! go on and share them. miladies, they must meet our new boy. what have we got here? ladies, i forgot that you must meet our new lodger... ...mr. oliver twist, esquire. nancy and bet. charmed. we’re all ladies and gentlemen around here. we’re all quality. don’t you take no notice of him. just "cause you got manners and they ain’t. whatcha mean i ain’t got no manners? l’m a regular gent, i am. permit me to assist you across the road? i was going to the palace. doorman, a cab, if you please. allow me the privilege to escort you in my own carriage. after you, your grace. sir arthur, you are too kind. "l’d do anything for you, dear, anything "for you mean everything to me "i know that l’d go anywhere "for your smile, anywhere "for your smile everywhere l’d see - "would you climb a hill? - "anything! - "wear a daffodil? - "anything! - "leave me all your will? - "anything! - "even fight my bill? - "what? fisticuffs? "l’d risk everything for one kiss, everything - "yes, l’d do anything! - "anything? "anything for you! "l’d do anything for you, dear, anything "for you mean everything to me "i know that l’d go anywhere "for your smile, anywhere "for your smile everywhere l’d see - "would you lace my shoe? - "anything! - "paint your face bright blue? - "anything! - "catch a kangaroo? - "anything! - "go to timbuktu? - "and back again! "l’d risk everything for one kiss, everything - "yes, l’d do anything - "anything? "anything for you! "l’d go anywhere for your smile, anywhere "for your smile everywhere l’d see "i know that l’d do anything "for you, dear, anything for you mean everything to me - "to me. - "to me. "to me, me, me "l’d do anything for you dear, anything - "yes, l’d do anything - "anything? "anything for you! - "would you rob a shop? - "anything! - "would risk the "drop"? - "anything - "though your eyes go "pop" - "anything! - "when you come down, "plop" - "hang everything! "we’d risk life and limb to keep you in the swim - "yes, we’d do anything! - "anything? "anything for you" get to work, then. no argument. there’s fine pickings in the street. - go and earn your keep. - you said we could see the hanging! be sure it ain’t your own. fagin, l’m waiting. waiting, my dear? what for? bill will give you what for, if you don’t fork out. hand over, start counting. - rush. - what do you think we are? - you and bill, you’ll be the ruin of me! - that’s right. if it’s all the same to you. - what was that for? - for getting caught. i was only practising. i'll die a pauper yet. here, take it. i'll starve. you’ll find me in the gutter with me feet in the air. bill might think the count is a bit short, wouldn’t you say? i only wish you had to get rid of the stuff, that’s all i wish. he still might, come on. so me and the boys we’ll live on air till i find a customer? heartless, that’s what i am. come on, bet. ta-ta, kids. young oliver wants to come on the game with charlie and me. what’s that? on the job, you mean? can i? please? i’d like to. would you? well, why not? you got to start somewhere. you couldn’t do it in better company. - look after him, dodger. - hats on, boys. time we’re off. - then i can go, sir? - good luck on your first job, my dear. i'll be waiting for you here when you come back. - line up! - line up! - single file! - single file! - quick march, left. - right. - left. - right. "you can go, but be back soon you can go, but while you’re working "this place, l’m pacing "round until you’re home, safe and sound "fare thee well, but be back soon who can tell where danger’s lurking? "do not forget this tune: be back soon "how could we forget? "how could we let our dear old fagin worry? "we love him so we’ll come back home "in, oh, such a great big hurry "it’s him that pays the piper it’s us that pipes his tune "so long, fare thee well pip! pip! cheerio! "we’ll be back soon "cheerio, but be back soon i dunno, somehow i'll miss you "i love you, that’s why i say, "cheerio," not "goodbye" "don’t be gone long be back soon "give me one long, last look, bless you "remember our old tune: be back soon "you can go, but be back soon you can go, but bring back plenty "of wallets full of cash don’t want to see any trash "whip it quick and be back soon only thick ones now, not empty "get rich this afternoon be back soon "our pockets will hold a watch of gold that chimes upon the hour - "a wallet fat, an old man’s hat - "the jewels from the tower "we know the nosy policemen but they don’t know this tune "so long, fare thee well pip! pip! cheerio! "we’ll be back soon "cheerio, but be back soon i dunno, somehow l’ll miss you "i love you that’s why i say, "cheerio," not "goodbye" "don’t be gone long, be back soon give me one long last look, bless you "remember our old tune: be back soon "and when we’re in the distance you’ll hear this whispered tune: "so long, fare thee well pip! pip! cheerio! we’ll be back soon "so long, fare thee well pip! pip! cheerio! "we’ll be back soon "so long, fare thee well pip! pip! cheerio! "we’ll be back soon "cheerio, but be back soon i dunno, somehow l’ll miss you "i love you that’s why i say, "cheerio," not "goodbye" "and when we’re in the distance you’ll hear this whispered tune: "so long, fare thee well pip! pip! cheerio! "we’ll be back soon" come on! come here, boy. give that back to me. give that back, come along. stop that boy! thief! my wallet! stop that boy! hold that boy! stop, thief! - leave him to us. - stole a gent’s wallet. we’ll catch him. he went that way. - have you seen him? - he’s disappeared, he’s gone. come here. come here, you! watch where you’re going! there’s the gent he stole from. can you identify this boy as the thief? yes, i saw him run away. why didn’t you look after him? why didn’t you bring him back with you? how can i help it? a fine thing, oliver in jail, and tomorrow he’ll be before a beak! for pinching a wallet. he goes to jail, what’s it matter? l’m afraid he may say something which will get us into trouble. that’s very likely, fagin. you see, you’re blowed upon. and l’m afraid, you see, that... ...if the game was up with us... ...it might be up with a good many more. it would come out rather worse for you... ...than it would for me. why you miserable, sneaking, treacherous old... you go down to that court in the morning... ...and you will find out what happens. me? go to court? with a magistrate sitting there? i'll go, they won’t know me. good girl. clever girl. and if he does talk, you’ll come and tell us quick... ..."cause then we’ll have to look after ourselves, won’t we? you won’t have to look after yourself. "cause l’ll look after you, believe me. i always believe you. have another drink. silence in court. what crime is this one charged with? he looks a thorough reprobate, to me. speak up, man! what’s he charged with? he’s not charged, your worship. this gentlemen appears against the boy. - what boy? i see no boy. - the boy in the dock, your worship. - yes. stand up, boy! - he is standing up. don’t be impertinent. put him on a box or something. - what’s he charged with? - picking pockets, sir. what’s your name, boy? does your father know you’re here? he says he’s an orphan. where do you come from? where do you live? who looks after you? he doesn’t seem able to say where he lives or anything else. a liar as well as a thief. and insolent, too. that settles it. the boy is committed to three months with hard labour. this is disgraceful! i demand to be heard. you have not yet... - i was there. - remove this lunatic! clear the court. i will speak, i saw what happened. he was outside my shop. two other boys stole the wallet. this child had nothing to do with it. but sentence has been passed! hasn’t it? he didn’t talk. case was dismissed. what a great judge! fetch the boy. - i’ve done my share. - look! now, come on. where are we going? at least i can make some amends. you’re coming home with me. jump in. - after them. - let the kid go. - he can still blab on us, can’t he? - leave him be. don’t lose him. "who will buy my sweet red roses? "two blooms for a penny "who will buy my sweet red roses? "two blooms for a penny "who will buy my sweet red roses? "two blooms for a penny "who will buy my sweet red roses? "two blooms for a penny "who will buy my sweet red roses? two blooms for a penny "will you buy any milk today, mistress? any milk today, mistress? "will you buy my sweet red roses? "any milk today, mistress? "two blooms for a penny "ripe strawberries, ripe! "ripe strawberries, ripe! "any milk today, mistress? - "will you buy my sweet red roses? - "ripe strawberries, ripe! - "any milk today, mistress? - "knives, knives to grind! - "any knives to grind? - "ripe strawberries, ripe! - "who will buy? - "who will buy? "who will buy this wonderful morning? "such a sky, you never did see! "who will buy my sweet red roses? "who will tie it up with a ribbon - "and put it in a box for me? - "ripe strawberries ripe! "so i could see it at my leisure whenever things go wrong "and i would keep it as a treasure - "to last my whole life long - "any milk today? "who will buy this wonderful feeling? "l’m so high i swear i could fly - "knives! knives to grind! - "ripe strawberries, ripe! "me, oh my! i don’t want to lose it "so what am i to do to keep the sky so blue? "there must be someone who will buy - "toy windmills - "knives to grind "who will buy? "who will buy this wonderful morning? "such a sky you never did see! "who will tie it up with a ribbon and put it in a box for me? "there'll never be a day so sunny it could not happen twice "where is the man with all the money? it’s cheap at half the price! "who will buy this wonderful feeling? "l’m so high, i swear i could fly "me, oh my! i don’t want to lose it "so what am i to do to keep the sky so blue? "there must be someone who will buy "there’ll never be a day so sunny i know it could not happen twice "where is the man with all the money? it’s cheap at half the price! "who will buy this wonderful morning? "makes you feel you’re walking on air "every tree and flower is singing "how fortunate of me to be alive to see the dawning of a day so fair "bye-bye, lullaby "who will buy this wonderful feeling? "l’m so high, i swear i could fly "what a sky, a heavenly ceiling "there’ll never be a day so sunny it could not happen twice "where is the man with all the money? it’s cheap at half the price! "who will buy this wonderful morning? "such a sky, you never did see! "who will tie it up with a ribbon and put it in a box for me? "there’ll never be a day so sunny it could not happen twice "where is the man with all the money? it’s cheap at half the price! "who will buy this wonderful feeling? "l’m so high, i swear i could fly "me, oh my! i don’t want to lose it "so what am i to do to keep the sky so blue? "there must be someone who will buy "buy, buy" we’ve got to get him back, do you hear? nab him the first time he sets foot out of the door. he never goes out alone, you know that. don’t you back answer me, my girl. three days since i spotted him... ...and what have you done about it? nothing! we’ve got to get hold of him somehow. now, who’s coming? - suppose it'll have to be me. - shut your trap, dodger. you’ve caused enough trouble already. it’s going to be done quiet, no fuss. someone who has the boy’s confidence... nancy, my dear, what do you say? it’s no good trying it on with me. and just exactly what do you mean by that remark? what i say. i’m not going! why can’t you leave the boy alone? he won’t do you no harm! why can’t you leave him where he is? where he’ll have the chance at a good life? you’ll bring him back here, my girl... ...unless you want to feel my hand on your throat. nancy, my dear, we must have that boy brought back. if he talked, think what would happen to us. think what would happen to bill. it would be the gallows for him, the drop. you wouldn’t want that to happen, would you, my dear? not to bill. - she'll go, fagin. - no, she won’t! yes, she will, fagin! she’ll go. even if i have to drag her there myself. "as long as he needs me "oh, yes, he does need me "in spite of what you see "l’m sure that he needs me "who else would love him still "when they’ve been used so ill "he knows i always will "as long as he needs me "i miss him so much when he is gone "but when he’s near me i don’t let on "the way i feel inside "the love i have to hide "the hell! i’ve got my pride! "as long as he needs me "he doesn’t say the things he should "he acts the way he thinks he should "but all the same "l’ll play this game "his way "as long as he needs me "i know where i must be "l’ll cling on steadfastly "as long as he needs me "as long as life is long "l’ll love him right or wrong "and somehow l’ll be strong "as long as he needs me "if you are lonely "then you will know "when someone needs you "you’ll love them so "i won’t betray his trust "though people say i must "l’ve got to stay true just "as long as he needs me" - can i answer it, rose? - thank you, dear. - books from mr. jessop. - thank you. - please sir, these books came for you. - good. - wait, there’s some to go back. - boy’s gone, sir. can i take them for you? i know where the shop is. please let me take them. i'll be quick. all right. mrs. bedwin, the books are on the table beside my bed. you’ll take those books to mr. jessop. tell him you have come to pay the £4.10 that i owe him. this is £5 note, so there'll be 10 shillings change. you understand? she’s a very pretty lady, isn’t she, sir? yes. i'll take the books for you. in a new suit, with a set of valuable books, and £5 note in his pocket... ...you expect him back? - don’t you? - if he does, l’ll eat my head with my hat. - look at that portrait. do you see a likeness to the lad? - that’s your niece, isn’t it? - that’s what i mean. wasn’t she the girl who... who ran away? a young, innocent face, nothing more. mere coincidence. l’m not so sure. born in a workhouse at dunstable, he thinks. that’s all he can tell us. very well. "who will buy this wonderful morning?" - "morning. - "morning. "such a sky you never did see "who will tie it up with a ribbon and put it in a box for me?" - help! - get in the cart. bull’s-eye, come here. - oliver’s back. - look at his togs. - he’s got books, too. quite the little gent. - lovely bit of stuff. delighted to see you’re so well, my dear. dodger will give you another suit in case you spoil that sunday one. look at this! i'll bank it for you. what’s that? - that’s mine, fagin. - no. mine, ours. - you shall have the books. - you hand it over, you old skeleton. that’s for our share of the trouble. you keep the books. start a library. mr. brownlow will be here after you if he finds out you’ve got his books and money. so he’ll be here, will he? out here, after us? - what did you tell him about us? - nothing. i'll wager this young rat’s told him everything. what did you tell him? - no, leave him alone. - you stand off me. no violence. you’ll have to kill me before you lay a hand on that boy. don’t you tell me. you keep out of this. if he says he didn’t tell them, he didn’t tell them. hit me, would you? i won’t stand by and see it done. let him be, or l’ll put my mark on you... nancy, you’re wonderful tonight! such talent! such a joker! you take care, i don’t know, but do it, fagin... ...or l’ll put the finger on all of you, and i don’t care if i hang for it. - do you know who you are? what you are? - you don’t have to tell me. - a fine one for the boy to make a friend of. - yes, i am, god help me. and i wish l’d been struck down dead before l’d laid a hand to bring him back. from tonight he’s a liar... ...and a thief, and all that’s bad. ain’t that enough for you without beating him to death? come, come, sikes. we must have civil words. yes, you deserve them from me, don’t you? i thieved for you when i was half his age. - it’s your dirty work i been doing since. - it’s a living isn’t it? - he’s right, nancy, a living is a living. - some living, lord help me. some living! get to bed, all of you. get to bed, i said! all this violence, all these scenes, screams, dramas! l’m asking you, is it necessary? not yet, fagin. but if this godforsaken little good-for-nothing’s uttered one word... if he has, the little devil... ...we sit down, talk it over, we think it out, we decide a safe action, we stay calm. do we? and while we’re sitting here... ...thinking, and talking, and staying calm... ...our collars get felt. and it’s, "come with me, if you please." no, thank you. you thought us into this lot. you can think your way out of it. from now on, bill sikes takes the law into his own hands. these hands. have you ever heard the sound of a chicken getting its neck wrung? can’t say i have... they squawk, fagin, they squawk. not a very pretty sound. no, bill. and then they die, don’t they? yes. i mean, no. they say some even start squawking before that even. they get what you might call a premonition. you’re wouldn’t be having no premonition of that sort, would you? not me, bill. the lips are sealed. l’m glad. because if anyone here should lead the law to me... ...and i gets to hear of it, then it will be your neck. your scraggy old neck. you think about it, fagin. a violent man, dodger. a very violent man. when that man’s back is up, no one is safe. look after him, dodger. and l’ll look after myself. a man’s got a heart, hasn’t he? joking apart, hasn’t he? "though l’d be the first one to say that i wasn’t a saint "l’m finding it hard to be really as black as they paint "l’m reviewing the situation: "can a fellow be a villain all his life? "all the trials and tribulation! better settle down and get meself a wife "and the wife would cook and sew for me and come for me, and go for me "and go for me and nag at me the finger she would wag at me "the money she would take from me a misery, she’d make from me "i think l’d better think it out again! "a wife you can keep, anyway l’d rather sleep, anyway "left without anyone in the world and l’m starting from now "so, how to win friends and to influence people? "so, how? "l’m reviewing the situation "i must quickly look up everyone i know: "titled people with a station who’ll help me make an impressive show! "i will own a suite at coleridge’s and run a fleet of carriages "and wave at all the duchesses with friendliness, as much as is "befitting of my new estate good morrow to you, magistrate! "i think l’d better think it out again "so, where shall i go? somebody? "who do i know? nobody! "all my dearest companions have always been villains and thieves "so, at my time of life i should start turning over new leaves? "l’m reviewing the situation: "if you want to eat you’ve got to earn a bob! "is it such a humiliation for a robber to perform an honest job? "so a job l’m getting, possibly i wonder who my boss'll be? "i wonder if he’ll take to me? what bonuses he’ll make to me? "i'll start at 8:00, finish late at normal rate, and all, but wait! "i think l’d better think it out "i think l’d better think it out again "what happens when l’m 70? "must come a time, 70 "when you’re old, and it’s cold and who cares if you live or you die? "your one consolation’s the money you may have put by "l’m reviewing the situation: "l’m a bad 'un and a bad 'un i shall stay! "you’ll be seeing no transformation but it’s wrong to be a rogue in every way "i don’t want nobody hurt for me or made to do the dirt for me "this rotten life is not for me it’s getting far too hot for me "there is no in-between for me but who will change the scene for me? "don’t want no one to rob for me but who will find a job for me? "i think l’d better think it out again!" so, when i heard about dear little oliver, i decided to come to london. - i decided. - it was good of you to come. what have you got to tell me? this locket once belonged to the boy’s mother. found by the wife after she passed away. the boy’s mother, that is, not my dear wife. - you’ve kept this all these years? - why should i not? didn’t it occur to you that it might provide the answer to the boy’s parentage? - his identity! his name! - he had none. the mother was unmarried. it is your clear duty to show this evidence to some higher authority. - your behaviour, madam, was shameful. - how dare you speak to me so! i only came here to help you. you came here to profit from your own greed and dishonesty. - you don’t think it belongs to my wife? - be quiet. your reward and something for the locket. your lucky you’re not in the law’s hands. - show these people out. - there’s gratitude for you! i hope this unfortunate circumstance won’t deprive me of my parochial office? my hope, sir, is that it will. but it was all mrs. bumble. i knew nothing till yesterday. no excuse. in the eyes of the law you are the more guilty of the two. the law supposes your wife acts under your direction. if that’s what the law supposes, sir, then the law’s an ass. if that’s the eye of the law, sir, then law’s a bachelor. the worst i wish the law is that it’s eye be opened by experience. by experience! sir, the locket, i didn’t really see it. i recognised it at once. i gave it to my niece, emily, on her 18th birthday. so it wasn’t just her young man jilting her that made her run away? no. she must have made her way to that workhouse and had her baby there. what’s going on? - why have you brought the boy here? - "cause he’s coming on a job... ...with me. but, why him? because i need a little one. that’s why. and he’s nice and thin. and on this particular job, that’s what counts. must i go? one word out of you... ...while you’re out with me and you know what will happen. bill, you can’t do this to him. please! you can’t! - i won’t let you... - no more of that. you just be at the tavern at 11:00. - i’ve come about oliver. tell brownlow... - you better come inside. mr. brownlow! - no. i just want to leave a message. - but he’ll want to see you. - please! i can’t stay! - sir, this person wants to... - who is it? - it’s about the boy, sir. - is there news of him? - he’s in danger. he was dragged off the day you sent him out. - who took him? - me and someone else. - you took him by force? - yes! - now i wish i had never been part of it. - where is he now? who is this other person? can you take me to him? you want to help the boy. why else are you here? - then tell me where he is! - i can’t! i'll bring him to you. not here. it’s too far. where, then? london bridge, tonight at midnight. but you’ve got to come alone. promise you’ll come on your own! you don’t trust me, do you? but you’ve got to. - i'll be there. - thank god. let me go. wait! is the boy hurt, ill-treated? i can’t say no more. please! he’ll kill me as it is if he finds out. - who is this man? - no, i won’t tell you. whatever i do, i won’t turn on him. you wouldn’t understand. l’ve got to go back. i want to go back. - promise you’ll come? - at 12:00. remember, you little worm, the front door. there. hurry! look above you. who is it? who’s there? rufus! dragon! come down, seize him! seize him! good dog! why worry, my dear? he always turns up! maybe he’s taken oliver back to my place. - he said he was coming straight here. - and that’s what he’ll do. - everything all right, bill? - no it’s not, fagin. - the brat woke them up. we had to run. - anybody see you? no. i'll just take the boy and put him to bed. i'll be back. put him back. bull’s-eye... bull’s-eye... bull’s-eye, watch him, will you? go on! sit. "oom-pah-pah! oom-pah-pah! that’s how it goes "oom-pah-pah! oom-pah-pah! everyone knows "they all suppose what they want to suppose "when they hear oom-pah-pah! "oom-pah-pah! oom-pah-pah! that’s how it goes "oom-pah-pah! oom-pah-pah! everyone knows "they all suppose what they want to suppose "when they hear oom-pah-pah! "oom-pah-pah! oom-pah-pah! "there’s a little ditty they’re singing in the city "especially when they’ve been on the gin or the beer "if you got the patience your own imaginations "will tell you just exactly what you want to hear: "oom-pah-pah! oom-pah-pah! that’s how it goes "oom-pah-pah! oom-pah-pah! everyone knows "they all suppose what they want to suppose "when they hear oom-pah-pah! "mr. percy snodgrass would often have the odd glass "but never when he thought anybody could see "secretly he’d buy it and drink it on the quiet "and dream he was an earl with an girl on each knee "oom-pah-pah! oom-pah-pah! that’s how it goes "oom-pah-pah! oom-pah-pah! everyone knows "what is the cause of his red shiny nose? "could it be oom-pah-pah? "what is the cause of his red shiny nose? could it be oom-pah-pah "pretty little sally goes walking down the alley "displays her pretty ankles for all of the men "they can see her garters but not for free and gratis "an inch or two, and then she knows when to say when! "oom-pah-pah! oom-pah-pah! that’s how it goes "oom-pah-pah! oom-pah-pah! everyone knows "whether it’s hidden, or whether it shows "it’s the same, oom-pah-pah "she was from the country but now she’s up a gum tree "she let a fellow feed her then lead her along "what’s the good of crying? she’s made her bed to lie in "she’s glad to bring the coin in and join in the song "oom-pah-pah! oom-pah-pah! that’s how it goes "oom-pah-pah! oom-pah-pah! everyone knows "she’s no longer the same blushing rose "ever since oom-pah-pah! - "oom-pah-pah - "oom-pah-pah "there’s a little ditty they’re singing in the city "especially when they’ve been on the gin or the beer "if you got the patience your own imaginations "will tell you just exactly what you want to hear: "oom-pah-pah! oom-pah-pah! that’s how it goes "oom-pah-pah! oom-pah-pah! everyone knows "they all suppose what they want to suppose "when they hear oom-pah-pah! "oom-pah-pah! oom-pah-pah! that’s how it goes "oom-pah-pah! oom-pah-pah! everyone knows "they all suppose what they want to suppose "when they hear oom-pah-pah!" be careful, bill. please, no violence! there! do you see him? now go on. quick! go on. go on. - stop! - i'll pay you back. bull’s-eye! bull’s-eye! come here, boy. bull’s-eye, come here. you come here, bull’s-eye. you come here, bull’s-eye. they’ve seen you, bull’s-eye. so, you can’t come with me no further. "cause if you do, they'll know you. come. you ain’t afraid of me, are you? bull’s-eye, come here. come here! did you see anyone about? i don’t know. i thought i saw someone running. here, that dog was here just now. wait a minute. i think i know him. bull’s-eye? that’s bill sikes" dog. they’re always around together. if anyone can find sikes for you, he can. come on. come on, boy. brass! i want some brass! l’ve got to get away. - what’s wrong, bill? - i want brass, money! there’s blood on your coat. where’s nancy? bill sikes, what did you do? she won’t peach on nobody no more. you shouldn’t have done that. - she peached? are you sure? - she must have, mustn’t she? she was handing the boy over to brownlow on the bridge. he was there, waiting for her. what did you come here for? get out! do you hear? get out! i want money. how much? 10? 20? - if anyone should come here... - they won’t find me. l’m not going to stand here and wait for them... it’s him. bull’s-eye. quick, boys! all of you! we’re changing lodgings! nancy, i loved you, didn’t i? look what you’ve done to me. bill, why make things worse? leave him. it’s me they’re after, but they won’t go for me if he’s near. keep out of it! out the back way. come on! - look up there! - it’s him! bill sikes! it’s him for sure! and the boy. scoundrel! get back! the other street, quickly! - after you, fagin. - after you, dodger. don’t bother with that. get out of it. - what do i do? - live up to your name, dodge about! get up there! now, then. loop the rope over the end of the beam. that’s right. that’s right. that’s good. "can somebody change? "it’s possible "maybe it’s strange but it’s possible "all my dearest companions and treasures "l’ve left them behind "l’ll turn a leaf over "and who can tell what i may find?" yes, young man? do i have the honour of your acquaintance? lined? only the best. lovely workmanship, ain’t it? "l’m reviewing the situation: "once a villain, you’re a villain till the end - "your light fingers - "your inspiration - "what a team! am i your partner? - "more a friend "for your talent is employable so make your life enjoyable "a world with pockets open wide awaits your whim to grope inside - "collections undetectable - "we might retire respectable - "together till our dying day - "the living proof that crime can pay "i think we’ll have to think it out again!"