the ring of the fisherman, which bears the official papal seal, must be destroyed immediately following the pope's death. the papal apartment is then sealed for nine days of mourning, a period known as "sede vacante", the time of the empty throne. over the last several days, catholic leaders from every corner of the world have flocked to rome, shocked by the sudden death of this progressive and beloved pope. today, in st. peter's square, the faithful pray that there is among them another leader who can unite their church, which has been so riven by change and dissent in recent years. as the body of the pontif passes by, we see prayers are being offered by the preferiti, favorites among those being considered to succeed him as the vicar of christ. at the end of the mourning period, the college of cardinals will lock itself behind the doors of the sistine chapel for conclave. the process by which they will choose a new leader for the world's one billion catholics who now find their church at a crossroads, its ancient traditions threatened by a modern world. attention: control booth going online. we are powering up. attention category 1 personnel. interlock areas are now restricted. you've blocked all access, philippe. you are terrified because you gave it your all. the accelerator should never create antimatter. it's only three cylinders under high security. i only ask you to wait. we can't wait any longer. antimatter is only the beginning. we will have free access. but listen, even with proper calibration, we might not be prepared. just call the director. stop this. atlas underground is now a restricted vault. vittoria, vittoria... protons are being loaded. this will not blast us to the other side, so, please. powering on lhc magnets. ionic stage in 4, 3, 2... start the collision sequence. vittoria, what did phillipe want? he about shitted. we should still wait. what do you think? it's now or never. beam stability is good. take your places, people. atlas and cms checked. trigger is set. collision is imminent. let's hope the heavy ion guys didn't mess up. luminosity monitors operational. b-line has no restrictions. enable beam capture. accelerating the beam. stage 1: line up. magnets to full field. last p still too high. we are moving up the luminosity 10 to 34. eject particle beams. filling the lhc. fusion commenced. we are back online. the merger may be any time. particles in transition. collisions are fixed and running. lhc injecting protons: beam 1. lock the feedback systems. particles at 99% the speed of light. colliding stable beams. enact injection kicker. we have a signal on the luminosity monitors. we have events. protons are moving. we have created antimatter. the unknown has been created. silvano, we have succeeded. we are now in god's hands, vittoria. i am on my way. silvano? silvano! oh, god. help! aiuto! aiuto! - a swim might help your jet lag. - i beg your pardon? the bags under your eyes. it's five in the morning and you're from the vatican. crossed keys under the triregnum. it's a papal symbol. claudio vicenze. corpo della gendarmeria vaticano. vatican police? i was expecting another letter. my request for access to your archives. shouldn't you be in rome? kind of a busy time for you guys, huh? in fact, i was in new york. a detail to the un. i received a phone call in the middle of the night. "find professor robert langdon. a matter of great urgency." they said to show you this. the illuminati? they disappeared hundreds of years ago. did they? look at that again. it's an ambigram. it's the same image, forward and backward. now, that's common for a symbol like a yin and yang or a swastika but... that's a word. that illuminati ambigramatic symbol has been considered a myth for 400 years. supposedly, in the 16th century, some artist created it as a tribute to galileo's love of symmetry. it was only gonna be revealed when the illuminati had amassed enough power to resurface and carry out their final goal. i wrote a book about it. which is why you're here. "the art of the illuminati" by robert langdon. part one. i haven't been able to finish part two because i'm not allowed access to your archives. it's remarkable. similar. someone is trying to make you believe the illuminati themselves have returned to rome. right after the death of a pope. four cardinals were kidnapped from their quarter's inside the vatican sometime between 3 and 5 am this morning. shortly afterward, that document was sent to the office of the swiss guard along with the threat the cardinals will be publicly executed one per hour begining at 8 pm tonight in rome. the conclave? was to begin today. we have postponed the start for a few hours with the story of illness. there are no suspicions... yet. what do you want from me? these criminals, who sent this ambigram, meant it as a taunt, a provocation. but captain olivetti think if you can use it to learn their identity, perhaps we can stop this abomination. why me? your expertise. your erudition. your recent involvement with certain church... shall we say... mysteries. i wasn't under the impression that episode had endeared me to the vatican. oh, it didn't. but it did make you, what is the word for... "formidable"? formidable? a vatican jet is standing by twenty minutes from here. will you come with me? professor langdon. you've spent your life searching for symbols like the one you now hold in your hand. how much longer are we going to pretend you have not already decided to come? if the illuminati have returned and are in rome, we will hunt them down and kill them. the illuminati did not become violent until the 17th century. their name means 'the enlightened ones'. they were physicists, mathematicians, astronomers. they were concerned with the church's inaccurate teachings and they were dedicated to scientific truth. but the vatican didn't like that. so, the church began to, how did you say it? oh. hunt them down and kill them. drove them underground into a secret society. - professor langdon. - yes? welcome to vatican city. ernesto olivetti, inspector general of the vatican police force. my pleasure. this way please. we'll meet in the headquarters of the swiss guard. - i thought you were swiss guard. - no, uh, the gendarmaria. we are responsible for everything inside the vatican walls with the exception of the security of his holiness... - yeah. - ... and the apostolic palace. that is swiss guard. i}the roman carabinieri are here as well in an advisory capacity. so jurisdictionally this is... a goddamn nightmare. - oh, yes. pope pius ix's great castration. - i beg your pardon? 1857. pope pius ix felt the male form would inspire lust. so, he took a hammer and chisel and 'un-manned' hundreds of these statues. the plaster fig leaves were added later. are you anti-catholic, professor langdon? no. i'm anti-vandalism. i urge you to guard your tone here. the swiss guard is a calling, not a profession, and it encourages a certain civiltry. commander richter, the head of the guard, is a deeply spiritual man. he was close to the late pope. understood? look, i dont study symbols because i consider them unimportant. ceremony, traditions, heavily mark our lives. i just hope i can help. - so do i. you were my idea. wait here. please. commander? commander richter? doctor vetra? i'm commander richter, principal of the swiss guard. thank you for coming. oh. professor langdon. what a relief. the symbologist is here. this way, please, miss vetra. the situation has changed. we received another threat from the kidnapper. the canister was stolen from my lab around noon yesterday. the intruder killed my research partner, silvano paintivolio and mutilated him in order to bypass security. we use retinal scanners. they cut out his eye. is that your stolen canister, ms. vetra? - where is that camera, number 86? - it's wireless. it, too, was stolen. it could be anywhere inside the vatican walls. that canister contains an extremely combustible substance called antimatter. we need to locate it immediately. we evacuate vatican city. i'm quite familiar with incendiaries, miss vetra. i've never heard of antimatter being used as such. well, its never been generated in significant quantities before. it's a way of studying the origins of the universe. to try to isolate what some people call "the god particle". but there are implications for energy, research- "god particle"? what you call it isn't important. it's what gives all matter mass. the thing without which we could not exist. you're talking about the moment of creation. - yes, in a way, i am. the antimatter is suspended there... in an airtight nano-composite shell with electromagnets on each end. but if it were to fall out of suspension, and come into contact with matter, say with the bottom of the canister, then, the two opposing forces would annihilate one another violently. what might cause it to fall out of suspension? the battery going dead. which it will just before midnight. what kind of annihilation? how violent? a cataclysmic event. a blinding explosion equivalent to about 5 kilotons. vatican city will be consumed by light. those are the exact words the kidnapper used. we will destroy your four pillars. we will brand your preferiti and sacrifice them on the altars of science. then bring your church down upon you. vatican city will be consumed by light. a shining star at the end of the path of illumination. it's the ancient illuminati threat. destruction of vatican city through light. four pillars. there's your kidnapped cardinals. you didn't tell me they were the preferiti, the favorites to be named the next pope. play it again. we will destroy your four pillars. we will brand your preferiti... wait, stop it. stop. brand them? that's another illuminati legend. this one says that there are a set of five 'brands'. each one an ambigram. the first four are the fundamental elements of science: earth, air, fire and water. th fifth is a mystery. maybe it's this. you said they'd be killed publicly. yes. revenge. for la purga. la purga? geez, you guys don't even read your own history, do you? 1668. the church kidnapped four illuminati scientists and branded each one of them on the chest with the symbol of the cross. to 'purge' them of their sins and they executed them, threw their bodies out in the street as a warning to others to stop questioning church rulings on scientific matters. they radicalized them. the purga created a darker, more violent illuminati. one bent on... on retribution. and look how they intend to finally get it. using anti-matter. technology to destroy the church. science obliterates religion. is there any more? ...and sacrifice them on the altars of science. then bring your church down upon you. vatican city will be consumed by light. a shining star at the end of the path of illumination. path of illumination? i need access to the vatican archives. professor, i don't think this is the appropriate moment- your petition has been denied seven times. no, no. this has- this has nothing to do with my work. the path of illumination is a hidden trail through rome itself that leads to the church of the illumination. the place where the illuminati would meet in secret. if i can find the "segno", the sign, that marks the beginning of that path, the four churches along it. it may be where he intends to murder your cardinals. one every hour. at 8, 9, 10 and 11. then the device explodes at midnight. if we could figure out the first church and get there before he does, maybe we could stop it. but i can't find the start of the path until i get into the archives. even if i wanted to help you, access to the archives is only by written decree by the curator on the board of vatican librarians. or by papal mandate. yes, but, as you no doubt have heard, the holy father is dead. what about il camerlengo? the camerlengo is just a priest here. the former pope's chamberlain. doesn't the power of the holy see rest in him during "tempo sede vacante"? fellas, you called me. his holiness once told me the pope is a man torn between the real world and the divine. it seems the real world is upon us tonight. i'm familiar with illuminati lore and the legend of the brandings. the purga is a dark stain on this church's history. i'm not surprised this ghost has returned to haunt us. commandante, have you begun a search for this explosive device? of course, but it could be anywhere. my primary concern at the moment is the safety of the cardinals. the sistine chapel is a fortress. as long as the cardinals are in conclave, your security concerns are at a minimum. devote as many of your people- signore, if you are about to suggest a naked eye search of the entire vatican city, i will tell you... - commander. - ... i do not have the people. although i am not his holiness, when you are addressing me, you are addressing this office. do you understand? - yes, father. - good. now, you said the image on the screen was illuminated by artificial light. might i suggest methodically cutting power to various sections of the city? when the image on the screen goes dark, you'll have a more specific idea of the camera's location. dr. vetra, beside yourself and your research partner, who else knew about this antimatter project? no one but the research team. this project was strictly confidential. but silvano kept detailed journals. if he told anyone else about what we were doing, he would have made a note of it. and do you have these journals? i can have them flown here from geneva in an hour. please. professor langdon. mr. langdon. you are correct that i may grant you access to the archives. thank you, padre. i said that you are correct that i may, not- not that i will. christianity's most sacred codes are in that archive. given your recent entanglement with the church, there is a question i'd like to ask you first, here, in the office of his holiness. do you believe in god, sir? father, i simply believe that religion... i did not ask you if you believe what man says about god. i asked if you believe in god. i'm an academic. my mind tells me i will never understand god. and your heart? tells me i'm not meant to. faith is a gift that i have yet to receive. be delicate with our treasures. - the archives are this way. - professor langdon? if this path really leads to the church of illumination, that may be where they've hidden the antimatter. the shining star at the end of the path. i thought so, too. follow the path and we may find the canister at the end of it. can you deactivate the device? i can change the canister's batteries as long as we have more than five minutes of life. that would give us another 24 hours to get it safely back to cern. - robert langdon. - vittoria vetra. are you really a symbologist or was he mocking you? no. both. you're a physicist? bioentanglement physics. the interconnective life systems? okay. your project... it was to give towards the energy research? eventually, yes. one pack of antimatter could power an entire city for a month. or tonight, i guess, destroy one. what are we looking for in the archives? - a banned volume written by galileo. - galileo was illuminati? - yeah, and an obedient catholic. who didn't think the church and science were enemies but just a different language telling the same story. anyone of like minds could find the church of illumination. but he couldn't exactly advertise its location, so he created a coded path. richter has started to turn off the power at various rates. it will be back on in a minute. then some unknown illuminati master sculpted four statues. each one a tribute to one of the fundamental elements: earth, air, fire, water. and placed the statues out in public, in churches throughout rome. each statue held a clue pointing to the next. at the end of the path was the church of illumination. if you could find that, you were one of them. what makes you think he's going to murder the cardinals in the churches? the illuminati called those four churches by the special name "l'altare de la scienza". sacrifice them on the altars of science, he said. exactly. oh, wow. look at this. excuse me. signori. cardinal strauss, have you been informed of the situation? yeah. my belief is we should proceed with the sealing of conclave. at this late hour? that would be highly unorthodox. and, yet, was ensured to wrought my power in great elective. the cruelest honor in christendom. i have no personal ambitions, patrick. only those i hold for my church. st. peter's church, which is someday taken at its most vulnerable moment. and this is not a coincidence. the church will not fall in a day. we must evacuate vatican city. that is exactly what they want. publicity and panic. no. we must not give them oxygen for the media fire. but the people in st. peter's square? care deeply about their church, as we do. their faith will sustain them. their faith will not protect them from an explosion. we are all bound for heaven eventually, are we not? spoken like one who has enjoyed the blessings of a long and full life. patrick, do not confuse the power of the office you temporarily hold with your true place here at the vatican. you were a favorite of his holiness. but his holiness is with his father now. mea culpa. seal the doors. everyone outside. this way, please. oh. beautiful. the chambers are hermetic vaults. oxygen is kept at the lowest possible level. it is a partial vacuum inside. so, extended stays are not recommended. so, don't panic if you feel light headed at first. i'll be just outside the door, watching you, mr. langdon. conclave will go on without us. it must. now of all times. may god forgive you for what you have done. father, if god has issues, they won't be with what i've done. they will be with what i'm about to do. it was confiscated from the netherlands by the vatican just after galileo died. i've been petitioning to see it for about ten years. ever since i realized what was in it. what makes you so sure that this thing is there? the number 503. i kept seeing it, over and over again. in illuminati letters. scribbled in the margins. sometimes just signed '503'. it's a numeric clue, but, to what? five? well, that's a medieval number to the illuminati. there's the pentagram. pythagoras. dozens of other examples in science. but what about 3? it didn't make sense, until i thought: what if it's roman numerals? diii. - d3. galileo's third text. dialogo. discorso. diagramma. just a few days with this and i could've actually finished my book. and sold dozens of copies at the harvard bookstore. il diagramma veritatis. diagram of truth. i know about the dialogo and the discorsi. galileo laid out his theories about the earth revolving around the sun. right. it said the earth was not the center of some universe with heaven above, hell below, as the church had said it was. so, they forced him to recant his second book. but what was this one? this is how he got the word out. this is the truth. not what the vatican forced him to write. smuggled out of rome, printed in holland on setched papyrus. see? that way, any scientist that was caught with a copy could just throw it in water and galileo's heresy would disolve. disappear. between that and vatican burnings it's possible this is the only copy that remains. and if i'm correct, the segno is hidden on page number... five. yeah. do you need help with the latin? sure. movement of the planets, elliptical orbits, idiosyntricity... sorry. i don't think there's anything that could be interpreted as a... wait, wait, wait. do that again. what is that? wait. it's a watermark. and there's a line of text. go back. it's in english. english? why english? english wasn't used in the vatican. it was too polluted. it's free thinking. it was the language of radicals, like shakespeare and chaucer. here's another one. "the path of light is laid a sacred test. " would you write this down as i dictate? sorry, professor. no time. yeah, yeah. well, what the hell? yeah. twenty minutes till eight. where are we headed? hold on. hold on. i'll tell you in a minute. here. let me see that page again. where did you get that paper? we borrowed it. "from santi's earthly tomb, the demon's hole..." are you insane? "...across rome the mystic elements unfold." "the path of light is laid in a sacred test." "let angels guide thee on thy lofty quest." you removed a document from the vatican archives? she did. "from santi's earthly tomb..." - the first marker is at santi's tomb. - yeah. - but who's santi? - raphael. - raphael? the sculptor? - yeah. santi was his last name. - so, the path starts at raphael's tomb? - raphael's buried at the pantheon. - isn't the pantheon a church? - the oldest catholic church in rome. i just pulled a dozen of my best men for this. you better be right. this is one of the busiest spot in all of rome. you can never get away with it. it's impossible. the poem implies- the poem? unbelievable. i'm basing this operation on an american's interpretation of a 400 year old poem. well, the information we have clearly refers to raphael's tomb and raphael's tomb is inside that building. and because the vatican destroyed all of the pagan statues in the late 1800s, if this is the first marker, whatever clues were here to lead us to the next are sure gone by now. the path is dead. so, this is it. your only chance. seperate approaches. no closer than two blocks and no uniforms. three minutes. i'll need a set of eyes inside. excuse me. two men with symmetric black suits and earpieces? they're hardly disguised. that's what i have. - well, fine. i'll go in. you don't have communication. you can't carry a walkie talkie. it's too conspicuous. tourists have cell phones, don't they? no, no. you can't send her in there alone. all right. i won't. don't look so anxious. we're supposed to be married. well, maybe we're not getting along today, hmm? hold my hand. - but don't crush it. - sorry. nervous newlywed. ooh. look, honey. the oculus. that could be the demon's hole in the poem. why are the tombs at an angle? they're facing east to worship the rising sun. but this is a christian church. new religions often adopt the existing customs and holidays to make conversion less of a shock. like the 25th of december. it's the pagan celebration of the unconquered sun. it also makes a handy date for the birth of christ. - let's check the recesses. - okay. i'll go to the right and i'll meet you in 180 degrees. follow me, please. now, the pantheon, which means 'temple of all gods', was originally built as a temple to all the gods of ancient rome in 27 bc. although the building is usually credited to agrippa of damascus... robert! robert! it's raphael's tomb, but it's the wrong one. what are you talking about? it was moved here in 1759, a century after diagramma was published. where was he originally buried? urbino, i think. santi's earthly tomb. what could posssibly be santi's earthly tomb? damn it! santi's tomb. it must mean the chapel that he built. he's not buried in it. he designed it. the demon's hole. it's not that oculus. it's an undercroft. it's a crypt. are there any questions? yes. yes! did raphael santi ever design a chapel with an ossuary anex in an angel figure commissioned by the catholic church? i'm sorry. i can only think of one. one is good. wrong? what do you mean wrong? it's the chigi chapel in the church of santa maria del popolo. it was once called capella della terra, the chapel of the earth. earth. the first element. that's it. - you're certain about the pantheon? - we have four minutes. back to the vatican. back to the vatican? you-you can't. commandante, if you care at all about your church, you'll listen to me. my church? my church comforts the sick and dying. my church feeds the hungry. what does your church do, mr. langdon? that's right. you don't have one. take him if you want. i'm done with him. all right, this makes sense. look, look, look! right in front of the church. an obelisk. a lofty pyramid. the egyptian symbol adopted by the illuminati. if he's going to kill him, he'll do it here. eight o'clock. no. no. here. it's an annulus. which one is the chigi chapel? must be in one of these areas. pyramids in a catholic church. this is it. this is the chigi chapel. the demon's hole. yeah, but it's askew. come here. give me your flashlight. what's that? my savior christ will be my judge, to testify that my voice is his. for i believe that he should be chosen for the sake of god. i wish to pontifex, dominicus scolamiero. i wish to pontifex, eduardo rossi. they are voting for themselves to prevent a majority. they're waiting for the preferiti to be rescued. perhaps we should, as well, yes? not until the smoke is white will the college of cardinals have chosen a new holy father. for now the vatican seat of ultimate power remains vacant. get the body out of there. search the rest of the building. - chartrand! - sir. outside a perimeter. secure, but invisible. no lights, no guns. nobody knows. understand? yes, sir. is it raphael? the chapel is raphael. but the sculptures are bernini. the unknown illuminati master? bernini? - he worked for the church. - almost exclusively. but the illuminati were infiltrators. there wasn't a powerful organization on earth they didn't penetrate, including the vatican, by hiding in plain sight. habakkuk and the angel. he's the prophet that predicted the annihilation of the earth. "let angels guide thee on thy lofty quest." this is the first marker. the path is a line. southwest. it was pointing southwest. earth, air, fire, water. we're looking for a bernini sculpture having something to do with air. the second church is somewhere southwest of here. you're sure this time? i need a map showing all the churches of rome. i could use it now. the purple layers with these black crosses represent the churches. but nothing intersects the line until it hits... until it hits st. peter's. michelangelo designed st. peter's, not bernini. michelangelo designed the basilica. bernini designed st. peter's square. the second marker must be a statue in st. peter's square. it's ten minutes to nine. can you go any faster? not unless you want the full attention of the world press. no majority in the first vote, but cardinal baggia from italy is the clear favorite... still no new pope, but cardinal guidera from spain has the best chance... the more conceivable candidate could be cardinal ebner from germany... stem cell research is murder! you condemn sick people to death. man is not god. there. another obelisk. check the crowd. it's almost nine. he's got to be here already. must be a hundred statues up there. none of them are angels. those are all saints. how in god's name would anyone create a sculpture about air? bas relief. of course. it's still a sculpture. check the ground. look at the carvings. look for another having something to do with air. vento ponente. west wind. vittoria. here it is. west wind. an angel blowing out five streaks of air. this is it. call the police! call an ambulance! he's still alive. his chest. they punctured his lungs. "and you squeezed the life out of a bishop of rome." and he's actually claiming responsibility for the death of his holiness. that's ridiculous. he died of a stroke. it impliess the illuminati murdered him with his own medication. what? it's on here. "with man's solution we stilled his heart." "with his own needle did we pierce his unholy vein." did the holy father take any kind of medication by injection? tinzaparin. he had thrombophlebitis. he took an injection every day, but no one knew that. someone knew it. well, he had health concerns and seizures, as well. but he took steps to make sure he was watched for safety. he didn't want it made public, so we have no reason to discuss it. tinzaparin is lethal in the wrong dosage. an overdose could cause massive internal bleeding and brain hemorrhages. it might look like a stroke at first, but in few days, his body would show signs. this could easily be examined. ms. vetra, in case you're not aware of it... papal autopsy is prohibited by vatican law. we're not going to defile his holiness body just because of these claims. but why would they send this letter now? in order to cause panic. "the sun will blind at midnight..." "and neither police nor professors can stop it." he knows i'm here. obviously, they were hoping this letter would become public. we might be wise to preempt their next attempt by making an announcement of our own. - to refute this absurd claim. - that's out of the question. cardinal strauss has insisted this entire matter be kept internal. he shouldn't even be aware of it. he's locked in conclave. his final instructions, before sealing the doors, were very clear. cardinal strauss does not dictate vatican protocols. and to say, yet, technically, now that conclave has begun, it is privilege and duty to control public announcements. i've drafted a press release about the incident at the piazza, but any other statements are specifically prohibited. for that, the cardinal has asked me to remind you we have a chimney. commander richter, the search for the device? well, we've turned the power on and off to about twenty percent of vatican city - but nothing on the video yet. - we're running out of options. how long would you need to evacuate everyone? if i pull all my men from the search for the bomb, thirty minutes. mr. langdon, you have been right so far about the path. it's now 9:15. how quickly can you find the next church? the lines of breath on the carving pointed due east directly away from vatican city. but there were five of them, so there's room for error. about twenty churches intersect those lines. none of them have names that invoke fire. so, the bernini sculpture must be inside one of them that does. i'm willing to get back into the archives to find it. - would you escort mr langdon? - yes, father. silvano's journals. the killer's name could be in here. - may i stay? - please. fine. of course. professor. would it surprise you to find those clothes suit you? it would surprise the hell out of me. the vatican expressed its sympathy with the families of the victim. a tourist from düsseldorf, whose death is confirmed. vatican police have arrested a suspect... the investigation is completed. vatican will permit access to st. peter's again, with strict security measures. the vatican did admit that, where there are crowds, so often follows crime. we're trying now to get the name of the tourist who was... but wait. we're getting word now of smoke. smoke from the sistine chapel chimney. apparently, there's been another vote. the smoke is black. once again, the cardinals have failed to reach consensus, and the catholic church remains without a leader. what are you looking for now? - church assets. - i beg your pardon? artwork. it's valuable. corporations tend to keep track of their holdings. the catholic church is not a corporation. it's a beacon. a source of inspiration for one billion lost and frightened souls. sure, i get that. it's also a bank. commander olivetti said that i was not to leave your side this time. it wasn't me. it was her. power in zone 3 is disabled. no response on the screen. power on zone 3 again and continue with zone 4. what sort of signs? i'm sorry? if the holy father was given an overdose of tinzaparin, what signs would his body bear? bleeding of the oral mucosa. his tongue. post-mortem, the blood congeals, then turns the inside of the mouth black. even after fourteen days? it wouldn't show up until at least a week after his death. he was very important to me. yeah, i understand. will you come with me, please? signore, would you organize a security team to escort ms. vetra and myself down to the crypt? yes, sir. we'll leave immediately. do you smoke? a little bit. you better sit down before you keel over. what does this say in italian? ecstasy of saint theresa. right there. moved at suggestion of the artist. moved? to another church? at the suggestion of bernini? i don't know. here. translate all of this for me, and i'll buy you a pack of smokes. i'm looking for a reference of fire. - seraphim, meaning "the fiery one". - right. his great golden spear. a point of fire. then "woman left completely afire." the ecstasy of saint theresa. saint theresa on fire. so, this sculpture was moved to this church? why are they shuting down the system? they know we're down here. if there's no power, there's no oxygen. - can we get out? - the door is electronic. well, that's disappointing. - where are we going? - to see my father. i don't understand. i was orphaned when i was nine years of age. a bombing in ulster, the uvf protesting the visit of a catholic archbishop. the archbishop felt responsible and he adopted me the following day. i was raised by him and by the church. he was the wisest man i ever met. even when i was young and stubborn, i wanted to be ordained, but i was brought up in italy so i also wanted to do my military service. i wanted to fight. he told me, "learn to fly." so, i joined the aeronautica militari. flew helicopters. bringing the wounded back to hospitals. - he was a great man. - your father died. fourteen days ago. headquarters, you hear me? the flow is completed. oxygen level is very low. - answer, please. anybody hear me? - did you get anything? no. the walls are lead lined. there's no signal. this way. if the holy father was murdered, the implications are profound. vatican security is impenetrable. no one from the outside could've got anywhere near him. it was someone on the inside. we can trust no one. on my screen, no response in zone 7. we rechon that the battery will soon be empty and the device will explode shortly before midnight. holy father... when i was young, you've told me the voice in my heart was god's voice. you said i should follow it no matter how painful. forgive me. please, give me strength. what i do, i do in the name of everything you believed. god help us. santa maria della vittoria. do you know it? - yes, i do. - it's the next church. i think someone just tried to kill me. professor, i promise you, we had no idea. - he knows i'm here? - yes. you heard me ask permission. you gave me an escort. yes, but we had no idea that portions of our white zones were crosswired with that building. commander richter was extending the search. if he had known the archives were on that grid, he never would have killed the power. but there is the other possibility. is it conceivable the illuminati... have infiltrated the swiss guard? perhaps. the journals. where are they? who took the journals from this desk? signore, this is unacceptable. for a camerlengo to enter the chapel once conclave has begun. forgive me. there's been a development. his holiness celestine was murdered! is it so inconceivable that it will happen again? signori, please, a moment. please. signori. our church is at war. we are under attack from an old enemy. the illuminati. they have struck us from within. murdering our holy father! and threatening us all with destruction at the hands of their new god 'science'. they call it retribution. they think it justified... because of the church's attacks on men of science in the distant past and it's true. since the days of galileo, this church has tried to slow the relentless march of progress. sometimes with misguided means. but science and religion are not enemies. there are simply some things that science is just too young to understand. so the church pleads, "stop." "slow down." "think. wait." and, for this, they call us backwards. but who is more ignorant? the man who cannot define lightning... or the man who does not respect its natural awesome power? the battle is well under way, signori. we must defend ourselves. but, what if this time, we fight their stealth with openness? combat their wicked scheme with simple truth. and end this brutish battle once and for all. if the outside world could see this church as i do, looking beyond the ritual of these walls, they would see a modern miracle. a brotherhood of imperfect, simple souls... who want nothing more than to be voices of compassion in a world spinning out of control. signori, i ask.. i pray... that you break this conclave. open the doors, evacuate st. peter's square and tell the world the truth. get him down. there. there, that chain. on that pulley. this bench. get this pew off here and make it a ladder. vatican police. my son... god answers all prayers, but... sometimes his answer is no. the college will not break conclave. may i suggest... you direct your energies to helping the swiss guard find this explosive device. if it exists. and leave church leadership... to its leaders. eminence. there is a growing fear that without the four preferiti it defers much authority for any candidate. it will not be possible, - unless... - speak plainly. it is the recommendation of many that you asked to be removed... from your post as great elector. thereby making yourself eligible to wear the ring of the fisherman. well, if it is god's will. may his will be done. here! i hear someone. remove the lid. come on. signore, are you okay? i know he is there. madam, it is necessary that you remain quiet. don't tell me that i should remain calm. i want to know what he will do. commander, here's ms. vetra. those journals are private property. i demand that you return them to me. they're material evidence in a vatican investigation. i am an italian citizen. my rights do not end just because i crossed the other side. this is not italy. it's not even rome. it's the vatican. a country with its own laws. and when those journals passed the border, they became my property. i will give them back to you when i've decided they contain nothing of value to the investigation. do you have something to hide, commandante richter? do you, dr. vetra? if it were up to me, it wouldn't be this way. it's a sin to kill with pain. it's a sin to kill without reason, father. they made me a sinner. saint theresa on fire. professor langdon? - what direction is that? - west, i think. "across rome the mystic elements unfold." piazza barba rini is here. saint theresa is here. where is the santa maria del popolo, the first altar of science? - santa maria del popolo? - yes. thank you. st. peter's is here. we are here. a church with water. wait. wait, wait. across rome. the poem must mean it's literally across rome. professor langdon. commander richter has ordered me to escort you to the vatican immediately. piazza navona. earth. air. fire. water. "a-cross" rome. bernini's four rivers. professor langdon, the vatican insists that i have to take you back immediately. the vatican is about to see its fourth cardinal murdered tonight. now, look. you can do as they say and force me back to the vatican, where we can all mourn his death together. or you can show me how real cops act and take me to piazza navona, where we still might be able to stop it. oh. by all means, let's talk it over. in fourteen minutes, he's going to be dead. okay. this way, professor. yes, padre? at 11:15, if the church is still in peril, give the order to evacuate the cardinals. but with dignity. let them walk out into st. peter's square with their heads held high. we don't want the last image of this church to be of frightened old men sneaking out the back door. "where the angels guide thee..." there it is. there it is. professor, i know this fountain. there is no angel. the dove. the angel of peace. and it's looking in what direction? uh... east, i think. professor, just wait here. stay put. good evening. can you help me? i need a doctor. come here. calm down. don't shoot. hey! help! somebody help! help! somebody! cardinal baja. cardinal baja. si? where was he hiding you? the church of illumination. where is it? castel sant'angelo. castle of the angel. sir, there's news about cardinal baja. the cardinal told langdon he was being held in castel sant'angelo. if langdon's right, that's where the bomb is. - send everyone we can spare. - and you? i'm staying here. vittoria. - you're all right? - i'm all right, yes. what about you? i just heard about olivetti on the radio. i'm all right. i'm okay. robert, we can't trust richter. he took silvano's journals. there must be something in there he doesn't want us to see. the head of the swiss guard. from the castel sant'angelo. it's close enough so the wireless signal from that camera could still reach the vatican. the church of illumination is somewhere here and your canister is inside it. come with me. for 400 years, the illuminati met right under the church's nose. the vatican used this as a hideout and as a prison for their enemies. if the explosion happens here, would the blast radius take out the vatican? and part of rome along with it. they're pointing to it. the angels. the container must be down there. come on! - where are they going? - back to search the other castle. no, no. it has to be here! robert, it's a dead end. no, it's not. see if you can find a flashlight. all of these stones are rectangular granite. except right here. what is this? it's a pentagram. an eye... that leads to... nowhere. robert? these walls overlap and there's a passageway in here. here. let me have the flashlight. it's a passageway that leads to the vatican. an ancient escape route. oh, god. here. look. get on the radio. get the word out. conclave remains sealed. the camerlengo gave the order for evacuation at- i'm counter-manning it. this is it. this is their church. the canister should be lit by artificial light. it's not here, robert. "the shining star at the end of the path." it has to be. it's not here. what's the poem say? - nothing. nothing. it's all over. there was just four lines, each one describing... there's a fifth brand. it's not an ambigram. it's just two crossed keys. - the symbol for the vatican. - no. no, the papacy. they intend to kill him. before they destroy the vatican, they're going to brand and kill the pope himself. there is no pope. "tempo sede vacante." the camerlengo. - we have to warn him. - take a step back, please. take your cell phone from your pocket. throw it in the fire. murderer. you know, when they call me, and they all call me, it is so important to them that i know that what they ask is the lord's will. or allah's. or yahweh's. and i suppose they're right. because if he was not vengeful, i would not exist, now, would i? i've had several chances to eliminate you tonight. you're still alive because you have no weapon. and they didn't ask me to kill you. but if you pursue me, it is another matter. be careful. these are men of god. the camerlengo. have you come to make me a martyr? here. here. - i need to see the camerlengo. - he is not available. - i demand to see the camerlengo! - he is not available. we'll see about that. oh. it's a chiusa chiave. it's a one way portal. the only entrance is on the other side. no. hey! help! this is robert langdon and dr. vetra. open the door. the camerlengo is in danger. he's the one. he's got a gun. - illuminatus! - you bastard. illuminatus! you bastard! padre? order the evacuation. we only have nineteen minutes. here. he's... and get the helicopter for the older cardinals, right? yes, sir. robert? the brand, the symbol. could it have another meaning? crossed keys, but those were upside down. st. peter. the first pope... ...was crucified upside down. - on vatican hill. - a few hundred feet below us. - necropolis. city of the dead. "upon this rock, i will build my church." "or bring it down upon itself." the bomb. it's in st. peter's tomb. the grid is still cycling. the power to this section must be down. it must be here. it must be. don't touch it. we have seven minutes. robert, hold this. it's cold down here, isn't it? what's wrong? cold decreases battery life. - we may have less than five minutes. - so? if i pull the power with less than five minutes... the residual charge won't hold suspension. we should leave it here and get clear if we can. at least down here the damage- no! - no. wait! - father! we are live here at st. peter's square... where, despite a bomb threat, and an orderly evacuation, the crowd is actually growing in size. as we await an official announcement from the vatican spokesman as to the exact nature of the threat and whether or not they are treating it as a credible danger... this way! he's got a bomb with him. a bomb? roberto, this is an emergency. i'll take her up alone. he's got clearance. oh, my god. get down! cardinal strauss? it was the camerlengo. he has saved us all. he has saved the church and he's still alive. praise god. praise god. he is alive. he sacrificed himself for all of us. you know the worst thing we thought would happen was that our work would fall into the hands of the energy companies. we thought we could change the world. - so naive. - no, not naive. innocent, maybe. but it's not a crime. i'm not so sure. go back to work. change the world. a gift, uh, you understand? let's say for catholics everywhere. the carmelengo's age shouldn't influence the decision. signori, you are no doubt aware that by holy law the man is inelligible for election to the papacy. he's not a cardinal. he's a priest. he's of insufficient age. or maybe there's a way we could consider the possibility. i am sorry. the protocols of conclave are not subject to modification. i will not call a ballot on this matter. but, signore, you would not hold a ballot. surely, you remember? you gave up your post as great elector. they are singing at st. peter's square. now, what happened here tonight transcends our laws. has it? is it god's will that we give ourselves over to frenzy? discard the rules of the church? perhaps we need not discard them. signori, i am thinking now of romano pontifici eligendo numero 60... - acclamation by adoration. - exactly, signore. exactly. yes. if the holy spirit speaks through us, and we call a man's name out loud... that is election by adoration. - yes. - he's god's choice. yes. and the candidate need only be an ordained member of the clergy, present in the sistine chapel at the moment of his election. - signor camerlengo? - yes? the cardinals ask you to join them in conclave as soon as possible. - me? - yes, padre. what are you doing? silvano's journals. i want them back. richter said... his holiness suffered from seizures and steps were taken... for safety. he made sure he was watched, he said. what if he were trying to give me this key? that's the papal office. if the pope was worried about seizures, he must've had richter install cameras without telling anyone. to keep an eye on him for his safety. maybe it records. - i read the journals, patrick. - the scientist kept journals. so? - you figure prominently in them. - really? the devoli wasn't just a physicist. he was also a catholic priest. as such, he was deeply conflicted about the implications of his work and in need of spiritual guidance. like galileo. about a month ago, he requested an audience with the pope. but you know that, cause you granted the audience and you were also present during it. the 'god particle'. to actually claim an act of creation. - the blasphemy. the arrogance. - the holy father didn't see it like that. he urged him to go public. his holiness thought that the discovery could actually scientifically prove the existence of a divine power. and begin to bridge the gap between science and religion. his work was not religious. it was sacrilegious. but you... you saw the pope's position as a softening of church law. as an old man's weakness. your father's weakness. you murdered the vicar of christ. he raised me to protect this church, even from within. then you conjured up an old enemy from the past. the illuminati. you found the ancient brands in the papal vaults and put them to use to spread fear! the cardinals are men of belief. right now, their belief in evil is uniting them. the entire catholic world will be united by this attack. there is no attack. you're trying to convince the cardinals they're in a war, so they will choose a warrior to lead them. we are at war. we're weak when we should be strong. if science is allowed to claim the power of creation, what is left for god? it didn't work, patrick. - it isn't finished. - oh yes, it's finished. it's finished. i've shown the journals to father simeon. the moment the doors to the conclave open, he will tell the cardinals what you've done. i was planning on doing this alone. put it down. but, perhaps, it's better that you're here. put it down. put it away. help. he's the one. he's got a gun. - illuminatus! - you bastard. illuminatus! you bastard! padre. and get the helicopter for the older cardinals, right? i've been summoned by the college of cardinals. gently. but within our walls. he's on your side. father, into thy hands i commend my spirit. church sources now confirm that carmelengo, father patrick mckenna, has died of internal injuries sustained in his heroic fall... the catholic church thanks camerlengo for his selfless act and demands his immediate canonization. the vatican has also confirmed the deaths of three cardinals and the fire in the santa maria della vittoria. as we await the appearance of the new holy father cardinal baggia of italy, one of the four original preferiti, who, despite terrorist attempts at disruption seems to have been selected in one of the swiftest and smoothest conclaves in modern church history. professor langdon? please. a token of thanks from his holiness and from his new camerlengo. we are grateful you saved his life. and it's our understanding that you require this text to complete your scholary work. we ask only that in your last grand testament you ensure it finds its way home. of course. and when you write of us, and you will write of us, may i ask one thing? do so gently. i'll try. religion is flawed, but only because man is flawed. all men, including this one. he chose the name luke. there's been many marks and johns. never a luke. it said he was a doctor. it's quite a message. science and faith, all in one. the world is in need of both. you'll counsel him wisely. i'm an old man. i'll counsel him briefly. mr. langdon. thanks be to god for sending someone to protect this church. i don't believe he sent me, father. oh, my son. of course he did. subtitle made by rakib00, atheeshkr, lockjaw and rogard. nice teamwork, guys.