credit to: sakti tandi [1st indonesian-script] english. subs. and. re-sync. by npdv-id you know there are more people with genius iq living in china than they're people of any kind living in united states. that can't be possible be true. that is. what would account for that? first, awful lot people living in china. but, here's my question. how do you distinguish yourself than population of people who all got 1600 under sat's? - i didn't know they take sat's in china. - they don't. i wasn't talkin' about china anymore. i was talkin' about me. you got 1600? yes. i can sing in a capella group, but i can't sing. does that mean you actually got nothing wrong? i could row crew or invent a 25 dollar pc. - or you get into the "final club"? - or i get into the "final club". you know, from women perspective... sometimes, not singing in an a capella group is a good thing. this is serious. on the other hand, i do like a row crew. well, i can't do that. i was kidding. yes, i got nothing wrong in test. have you ever tried? i'm trying right now. to row crew? gettin' into "final club". to row crew? no! are you like... whatever, delusional? maybe, sometimes you said 2 things at once, i'm not sure which one i suppose to be aiming at... but you seen guys who row crew, right? no. ok, well, they bigger than me. they world class athlete. like a second ago you said you like guys who row crew. so i assumed you've met one. i guess, i just meant like the idea of it, you know the way a girl likes cowboys. ok. should we get something to eat? would you like to talk about something else? no, it just that since the beginning of the conversation about the "finals club" i think i may have miss a birthday. there are really more people in china with genius iq's than entire... "phoenix" is the most diverse. the "fry club", roosevelt punched the porc. which one? "the porcellian, the porc, it's the best of the best" which roosevelt? theodore is it true they send a bus around to pick up the girls? who wanna party with next phoenix chairman. so you can see why it's so important to get in. well, which is the easiest to get into? why would you ask me that? i was just asking. none of them. that's the point. my friend, eduardo made $300.000 betting oil futures one summer. and eduardo won't comes close to get in. the ability to make money doesn't impress anybody around here. must be nice. he made $300.000 in a summer. he likes meteorology. you said it was oil futures. you can read the weather, you can predict the price of heating oil. i think you ask me that because you think the "final club" that's easiest to get into is the one, where i'll have the best chance... what? you ask me which one is the easiest to get into because you think that the one, where i have the best chance. the one that the easiest is to get into, would be the one where anybody has the best chance. you didn't ask me which one was the best one. you ask me which one was the easiest one. i was honestly just asking, ok... i was just asking to ask... mark, i'm not speaking in code. erika, you obsesses with "finals clubs" you have "finals clubs"- ocd you need to see someone about it. who'll prescribe you some sort of medication you don't care if the side effect may include blindness. "final clubs" not "finals clubs" and there's a difference between being obsessed than being motivated. yes, there is. well, you do that, it's was cryptic, so you do speaking code. i didn't mean to be cryptic. i'm just saying i need to do something substantial in order to get the attention of the club. why? because they're exclusive and fun. and they lead to the better life. teddy roosevelt didn't get elected for the president because he was member from "phoenix" club? he was a member of the porcellian, and yes he did. why don't you just concentrate on being the best you, you can be. did you really just said that? i was kidding. i wanna try to be straight forward you might wanna be a little more supportive. if i get in i will be taking you to the events and the gatherings and will be meeting a lot of people you won't normally get to meet. you would do that for me? we're dating. ok, well i wanna try and be straight forward even let you know that we're not anymore. what you mean? we're not dating anymore. i'm sorry. this is a joke? no, it's not. you're breaking up with me? you gonna introduce me the people i wouldn't normally have the chance to meet. what the f... - what is that supposed to mean? - wait, settle down. what is it supposed to mean? erica, the reason we're able to sit and drink right now, because you used to sleep with the door guy. "the door guy" his name is bobby. i have not slept with "the door guy". "the door guy" is a friend of mine. and he's the perfectly good class of people. and what part of long island you from? wimbledon? - wait - i'm going back to my dormy. - wait, wait is this real? - yes. ok, than wait, i apologize, ok... - i have to go study. - erika... - yes? - i'm sorry, i meant it. i appreciate that but i have to go study. come on. you don't have to study. you don't have to study. let just talk. - i can't - why? because it is exhausting. dating you is like dating a stairmaster. all i meant is that you not likely to... currently, i wasn't making a comment on you're parents. i was saying that you go to b.u. *boston university* i was studying a fact. that's all. if it's seem rude, than of course i've to apologize. i have to go study. you don't have to study. why you keep saying that i don't need to study. because you go to b.u. wanna get some food? i'm sorry you're not sufficiently impressed with my educations. i'm sorry, i don't have a row boat. - so we're even. - i think we should just be friend. i don't want friends. i was just being polite. i have no intention of being friends with you... i'm under some pressure right now from my os class. if could just order some food. i think we should... look, you will probably going to be very successful computer person. you gonna go thru life thinking that girls don't like you, because you're a nerd... i want you know, from the bottom of my heart that won't be true. it would be because you are an asshole. harvard university, fall 2003 kirkland house erika albright's a bitch you think that's because her family changed their name from albrecht? or do you think because all b.u. girls are bitches? for the record, she may look like a 34c. but she's getting all kind of help from our friends at "victoria's secret" she's a 34b, as in barely anything there. false advertising. the truth is she has a nice face. i need to do something to take my mind of her. easy enough, except i need an idea. i'm a little intoxicated. i'm not gonna lie. so, what if it's not even 10pm and it's a tuesday night? the kirkland's facebook is open on my desktop and somebody of these people with pretty horrendous facebook pics. billy olsen's sitting here had the idea, putting some of the picture next to picture of farm animal, and have people vote who's hotter. good call, mr. olsen! yeah, it's on. i'm not gonna do the farm animal but i like the idea of comparing two people together. it gives the whole thing a very "turing" feel since people's rating of the picture is more implicit... than say, choosing a number to represent each person's hotness like they do on hotornot. com the first thing we're going to need is a lot of picture unfortunately, harvard doesn't keep a public centralized facebook, so i'm going to get all the images from the individual houses that people are in, let the hacking begin! first up is kirkland, they keep everything open and allow indexes in their apache configuration, so a little wget magic is all that's necessary to download the entire kirkland facebook. kid's stuff. next is eliot. they're also open, but with no indexes in apache. i can run an empty search and it returns all of the images in the database in a single page. then i can save the page and mozilla will save all the images for me. excellent. moving right along. excellent. moving right along. excuse me, everybody... you're in one of the oldest, one of the most exclusive club, not just harvard but in the world. now, i wanna welcome you all, the phoenix club first party of the fall semester. lowell has some security they require username/password combo. i'm gonna go ahead and says the don't have an access to main fas user database so they have no worry detecting an intrusion. adams has no security but limit the number of result to 20 of pages, all i need to do is to break up some script i use on lowell and reset. quincy has no online facebook, what a shame! nothing i can do about that. dunster is intense not only there's no public directory but there's no directory at all. you have to do searches. and if you're search return more than 20 matches, nothing's get return. once you do get result, they don't link directly to images. they link to php that redirect to something. weird! that's maybe difficult, i'll come back later. - hei, mark! - what? great one. beautiful fish. leverett is a little better. they still make you search. but you can do an empty search and get links to pages with every students pictures i slightly obnoxious that they only let you view one picture at a time... there's no way i'm gonna go to 500 pages to download pics one at a time so it's definitely necessary to break out emacs and modify that perl script. done. hey, what's goin' on? perfect timing. eduardo is here and he is going to have the key ingredients - hey mark, - eduardo... you and erica split up? how did you know that? it's on your blog. yeah. are you alright? - i need you. - i'm here for you. no, i need the algorithm you use to rank chess players. are you ok? we're ranking girls. - you mean others student. - yup. you think this such a good idea? i need the algorithm, alright. i need the algorithm. each girl base rating 1400. at any given time "girl a" has a rating r-a and "girl b" has a rating r-b. when any 2 girls are matched up, there's an expectation of which will win based on their current rating, right? and all those expectations are express this way. let's write it. the one on the left. the right. it works. who should we send it first? - dwyer - neal who will you send it to? just to couple of people. question is: who are they gonna send it to? hey, guys check this out. right or left. look this hot. she's my room mate. this is pathetic. albright? he blog about you. you don't wanna read it. erika, is this yours? awful lot of traffic. you think maybe we should shut it down before get into trouble. hello? wa-wait... what? at 4 in the morning? well, this very an usual amount of traffic to the switch of kirkland. you're saying it's unusual for 4 in the morning? no, this should be unusual for half time at the superbowl. alright. i'm gonna go in. what's goin' on? harvard network is about to crash. you don't think... i do... go to see if it's everybody... i can't comin' the network's down. unless, it's coincidence, i think this is us. it's not a coincidence. holy shit... so you were called in front of the ad board. that's not what happen. you weren't called in front of the administrator board? no, back, i mean... that's, back at the bar with erica albright. she said all that? that i said that stuff to her. i was reading from the transcript for the deposition. why we do even need to depose her? that really for us to decide. miss, you think if i know she can make me look like a jerk. - i'll be more likely to settle. - mark... why don't we stretch our legs for a minute, can we do that? it's been almost 3 hours. and frankly you did spend awful lot of the time... embarrassing mr. zuckerberg with the girl's testimony from the bar. i'm not embarrassed. she just made a lot that up. she was under oath. i guess there would be the first time somebody's lies under oath. you got 22 hundred hits within 2 hours? - thousands. - what? twenty-two *thousands*. wow... these guys are pretty fast. sure anybody make this a fair fight? jump up and swim. i think we'd have to jump up and drowned. or you could row forward, i could row backward. we're genetically identical, science says we'd stay in the one place. just row the damn boat. - you guys here about this? - what? two nights ago, a sophomore shut the network from laptop at kirkland. - at 4am. - how? he set up a website, where you vote on the hotness female undergrads. what were we doing that none of us heard about this? i do not know, 3 hour technical row before breakfast full course load, studying. another 3 hours in the tank then studying. i'm not sure how we missed it. how much activity was on those thing? twenty two thousands pages request. this guy hack the facebook from 7 houses. he set up the whole site in 1 night. and he did it while he was drunk. twenty two thousands? how do you know his drunk? he was blogging simultaneously, - you know what i think? - i'm way ahead of you this is our guy. cameron winklevoss, w-i-n-k-i-e-v-o-s-s, cameron spell the usual way. tyler winklevoss, tyler spell the usual way. and my last name the same as my brother's. mr. zuckerberg, this in an administration board hearing. you're being accused of intentionally breaching security, violating copyrights, violating individual privacy by creating the website www.facemash.com. you're also charge with being in violation university policy on distribution of digitized imaging. before we begin with our questioning you're allowed to make a statement, would you like to do so? i've, you know, i've already apologize to the crimson, to the abhw... to fuerza latina, and to any women in harvard may have been insulted as i take it that they were. as for any charges stemming from the breach from the security, i believe i deserve some recognition from this board. i'm sorry? yes. i don't understand... which part? you deserve recognition? i believe, i pointed out some pretty gaping holes on your system... - excuse me, may i? - yes mr. zuckerberg. i'm in charge of security for all computer on the harvard network. and i can assure you of its sophistication. in fact it was that level of sophistification that led us to you in for less than 4 hours. - four hours? - yes, sir. that would be impressive except if you had know what you lookin' for, you would've seen it written on my dorm room window. - so? - six month academic probation. well, they making an example out of you. they have my blog. i shouldn't have write nothing about the farm animals. that was stupid. but, i was kidding, for god sake. doesn't anybody have some sense of humour? - but i tried to stop you. - i know how do you do these thing, how you manage to get all girls to hate us. - why do i let you... - i know. - can't do that... - eduardo, i said enough. ok, let's look at a sample problem... suppose we're given a computer with a 16-bit virtual address and a page size of 256 bytes. the system uses one-level page tables, which start at address 0x400. maybe you want to have dma on your 16-bit system, who knows? the first few pages are reserved for hardware flags, etc. assume page table entries have eight status bits. the eight status bits would then be... anybody? and i see we have our first surrender. don't worry, mr. zuckerberg, brighter men than you have tried and failed at this class. one valid bit, 1 modify bit, 1 reference bit and 5 permission bits. that is correct. mark? are you mark zuckerberg? yeah. - cameron winklevoss. - hi... tyler winklevoss. are you guys related? - it's good. - funny. we never heard that before. so what can i do for you? did i insult your girlfriends? no, we didn't, actually... i don't know. we never asked. maybe we should do that... we have an idea we want to talk you about. do you have a minute? you guys look like you spend some time at a gym. we have to. we row crew. yeah, i've got a minute. - so you ever been in the porcellian? - no alright we gonna stay, we can't take you past the bike room 'cause you're not a member. i've heard. wanna sandwich or something? ok, mark, right? - mark, this is divya narendra, our partner. - hi. we were really impressed with facemash. and then we checked you out and you also built coursematch. i don't know coursematch. you go online and you see what courses your friend are takings... you are really smart, man. - mark... - yeah. we were talking about "coursematch" it was kind of a no brainer. and you invented something in high school too, right? an app for an mp3 player that recognizes your taste in music. anybody try to buy it? microsoft. how much? i didn't sell it. i uploaded for free. - for free? - yeah. why? ok, well. we have something that we've been working for a while. we think it's great. it's called harvardconnection. you create your own page. interests, bio, friends, pics. and then people could go online, see your bio, request... yeah, how this different from myspace or friendster? harvard-dot-e-d-u. harvard.edu is the most prestigious e-mail address in the country. and the whole site kinda base on the idea with girls... - not to putting anything in delicate. - girls wanna go with guys who go to harvard. divya and my brother don't have trouble putting things in delicate. many different between what we're talkin' about and myspace or friendster any others social networks inside... is that exclusivity... right? right. yeah, we'd love you to work with this mark. we need a gifted programmer and you're creative. and we know you would take this serious... womens group already declare a war... you know, this could help rehabilitate you image. wow, you would do that for me? we'd like to work with you. our first programmer graduated and went to work at google. our second programmer just got overwhelmed with school work. we will need you to build the site, write the code and we'll provide... i'm in... - what? - i'm in. awesome! that's what you said? it was 3 or 4 years ago... i don't know what i said. when did you come eduardo? i don't understand the question. do you remember answering an affirmative? the affirmative... when did you come to eduardo with the idea for facebook? it was called thefacebook then. it doesn't need to be that difficult. i'm currently in the middle of 2 different law suits. did you answer affirmatively, when tyler and cameron winklevoss, divya narendra ask you to build harvard connection, did you say, yes? i said i'd help. when did you approached mr. saverin with the idea for the facebook? i wouldn't say i approached him. sy? you can answer the question. at a party at alpha epsilon pi what's that? the jewish fraternity. it was caribbean night. it's not that guys like me are generally attracted to asian girls. it's that asian girls are generally attracted to guys like me. i'm developing an algorithm to define the connection between jewish guys and asian girls. i don't think it's that complicated. they're hot, they're smart, they're not jewish and they can't dance. - hey, mark's here. - mark. i think i've come up with something. hang on, i've gotta tell you something you're not going to believe. - what? - i got punched by the phoenix. - are you kidding? - no. i mean it's just the first of the 4 step process, but they slipped the invitation under my door tonight. i go to the first punch party tomorrow. you got punch by the phoenix. yeah, probably, it was just a diversity thing. it was just a diversity thing. i'll just ride that horse until... what did you want to talk about? - mark? - yeah. you said you've come up with something. yeah, i think i've come up with something. come outside. it's 20 degrees outside. i can't stare to that loop of niagara falls which has absolutely nothing to do with the caribbean. people came to facemash in a stampede, right? yeah. but it wasn't because the saw pictures of hot girls. you can go any around on the internet and see pictures of hot girls. yeah. that was because they saw pictures of girls that they knew. people wanna go on the internet and check out their friends, so why not build the website that offers that? friends, pictures, profiles, whatever you can visit, browse around. maybe its someone you just met at a party. but i'm not talkin' about a dating site. i'm talkin' about taking the entire social experience of college and putting it online. i can't feel my legs i know, i'm totally psyched about this. but wardo... yeah... it would be exclusive. you would've to know the people on the site to get pass thru on page. like getting punched. that's good wardo, it's like a final clubs except we're the president. i told him i thought it sounded great. it was a great idea. there's nothing to hack. people were gonna provide their own pictures, their own information. and people had the ability to invite or not invite their friends to join. see, in the world were the social structure was everything. puff... that was the "thing". it was a big project. and he was going to have to write ten of thousands of lines of code. so i wonder, why he was coming to me and not to his room mate. dustin moskowitz and chris hughes they're programmers. we're gonna need a little start-up cash to rent the servers and get it online. so that was why. - did he offers terms? - yes. we'll split it. seventy for me, thirty for you for you, putting up a thousands dollar. and for handling everything on the business end. you're cfo - and you said? - i said "let's do it" - ok, did he add anything else? - yes. it probably was a diversity thing but so what? why do you think he said that? gretchen, excuse me for interrupting, but whose discovery it is? - sy, if you let me continue with my line of question... - what do you suggesting? they're suggesting i was jealous of eduardo for getting punched by phoenix. and began a plan to screw him out of the company i haven't even invented yet. - were you? - gretchen... jealous of eduardo? oh, stop typing, we're off the record. maam, i know you've done your home work. and so you know that money isn't a big part of my life, but at the moment i could buy mt. auburn street, take the phoenix club and turn it into my pingpong room. i'll let you know how the party is, we recognize that you're a plaintiff in one suit involving facebook and a witness in another. - yes, sir. - at any time in the weeks, prior to mark telling you his idea, did he mention tyler winklevoss, cameron winklevoss, divya narendra or harvardconnection? yes. he said they'd asked him to work on their site. but that he'd looked at what they had and decided it wasn't worth his time. he said even his most pathetic friends knew more about getting people interested in a website than these guys. "these guys" meaning my clients. yes. he resented, mark resented that they, that your clients, thought that he need to rehabilitate his image after the facemash thing but mark didn't want to rehabilitate anything. with facemash he'd hack into harvard computers, he dumps his nose to the ad board. he got a lot of honorarity. facemash did exactly what he wanted it to do. were you aware that while mr. zuckerberg was building the facebook, he was also communicating with the plaintiffs? not at the time i wasn't. but... it really didn't have much to do with the winkelvoss dating site. how would you know? you' weren't even... were you aware that while mr. zuckerberg was building thefacebook, he was leading the plaintiffs to believe he was building harvardconnection? you're offering a conclusion not found an evidence. we are about to finding new evidence... from mark zuckerberg to tyler winklevoss november 30, 2003 i read over all the stuff you sent me re-harvardconnection, and it seems like it shouldn't take too long to implement, so we can talk about it after i get all the basic functionality up tomorrow night. from mark zuckerberg to cameron winklevoss. december 1, 2003. "sorry i was unreachable tonight. i just got about three of your missed calls. i was working on a problem set for my sytems class" from mark zuckerberg to tyler & cameron winklevoss. december 10, 2003. "this week has been pretty busy thus far with classes and work" "so i think it's probably best to postpone the meeting." "i'm also really busy tomorrow" tell him okay but we do have to make sure that we meet up before we all head off for break. - hi mark, - hi, i need a dedicated linux box running apache with a mysql back-end. it's gonna cost a little more money. - how much more? - about 200 more. - do we need it? - gotta handle the traffic. - do it. - i already did. hey guess what... i'm in the 2nd cut. that's good. you should be proud of that right there, don't worry if you don't make it any further. i'll get out of here. from mark zuckerberg to tyler and cameron winklevoss and divya narendra. december 15, 2003. i have a cs problem set that i'm just getting started with, and it should be about 15 hours of coding so i'll be busy tomorrow night, i won't really be free to meet until next wednesday afternoon. i have to cancel wednesday afternoon. i've basically been in the lab this whole time and also... won't be able to do it saturday as i have to meet up with my parents... as the plaque reads, this is john harvard, founder of harvard university in 1638. it's also called the statue of three lies. what are the three lies? mr. dowd. the three lies, first... shit! - take your pants off. - i know. mr. saverin. 1) harvard was founded in 1636 not 1638. 2) harvard was not founded by john harvard and 3) that's not john harvard. who is it? f- friend of the sculptor, daniel... chester. keep you jacket on. 39 days after mr. zuckerberg's initial meeting with my clients and he still hadn't completed work on harvardconnection. but on january 11, 2004 mr. zuckerberg registered the domain name thefacebook by network solution. to the best of your knowledge, had he even begun work on harvardconnection? not to my knowledge. no. hi cameroon, "i'm still a little skeptical that we have enough functionality in the site to really draw the attention and gain the critical mass necessary to get a site like this to run" we'll speak soon? this is the first time he mentioned any problem? yes, he was you'd sent 36 e-mails to mr. zuckerberg and received 16 e-mails in return, and this was the first time he indicated that he was not happy. that's correct! he had 42 days to study our system and get out ahead... do you see any of your code on facebook? did i use any of your code? you stole our whole god damn idea. fellas, what a match-dot-com for harvard guys! can i continue with my deposition you know you really don't need a forensic team to get to bottom of this if you guys were the inventors of facebook you'd have invented facebook. i can't wait to stand over your shoulder while you write us a check. no shit. let's continue. february 4, 2004 mark... mark... there is a girl in your art history class name stephanie attis. do you happen to know if she has a boyfriend? have you ever seen her with anyone. and if not, do you happen to know if she's looking to go out with anyone? dustin... people don't walk around with a sign on them that says some... we were supposed to meet at nine. - have you slept yet? - i've to add something. what? shit that's look good, that's look really good. it's clean and simple, no disneyland... but watch... what'd you write? relationship status, interested in, this is what drives live in college. are you having sex or aren't you it's why people take certain classes. and sit where they sit. and do what they do, and it's um, centre, you know, that what's thefacebook is gonna be about... people gonna log on... because after all the cake and watermelon, there's a chance they're actually gonna... - get laid... - meet a girl. yes. - this is really good. - and that was it. what d'you mean? - it's ready. - it's ready? that was it, and here's the masthead. - you made a masthead. - yeah. eduardo saverin, co-founder and cfo. you have no idea how what that's gonna mean for my father. sure i do... - when's it go on live? - right now, take your laptop out. why we do need my laptop. because you've got e-mails for everybody at phoenix. i'm not sure it's gonna be cool with them that i spam their... it's not spam. i know it's not spam if we send it to our friends it'll just bounce around the computer lab. i haven't gotten in yet. these guys know people and i need their e-mails. - sure - good. give me the mailing list. jabberwock12@harvard e-d-u. these guys. they're literary geniuses 'cause the world's most obvious lewis caroll reference is in their... it's a valentine's theme. they playing love songs. good point, 'cause cole porter and irving berlin never wrote any love songs. i'm buying. mark, mark, are you praying? what ever happened to cole porter and irving be93 --> 00:37:42,881 they're not so bad i'm just saying. yeah, you're right. the site's live. you know, let's go get a drink and cele 00:38:35,126 honey, just put your laptop away... seventy four people spam me the same link. casey... - what is it? - i don't know but i'm really hoping it's cat look like a hitler 'cause i can never get enough of that. no, it's not. div? what? div, w-what is wrong? - hey! - not now! - we need 20 mins. - ok. i just want to let you know that zuckerberg stole our website. - mark zuckerberg? - he stole our website. it's been alive for more than 36 hours. mr. hotchkiss ty, the lawyer's on the phone with dad. yes, sir. i'm here with my brother tyler, our business partner, divya. welcome to thefacebook. thefacebook is an online directory that connects people through different social networks. you must have a harvard.edu address to register. that's right. yes, sir. i called earlier, i'm looking for mark zuckerberg yes, sir. he's quoted a couple of times. i can read it to you. "everyone's been talking a lot about a universal facebook within harvard" i think it's kind of silly that it would take the university a couple of years to get around to it. i can do it in class jobs than they can't and i did it in a week. - tell him, divya narendra called, i appreciate it. - that's how we talks. as of yesterday evening, zuckerberg set over 650 students to registered thefacebook.com he said that he anticipated 900 students would've join the site by this morning. divya was just reading that 650 students signed up on the first day if i was i drug dealer i could give free drugs to 650 people in one day. this guy doesn't have 3 friends to rob... guys, please, come on... alright that's what we'll do, mr. hotchkiss then we e-mail it to you. you won't be able to get on the website yourself. because you don't have a harvard... uhm.. you know what it would be easy for us to e-mail it to you. i'm sure you right... he's a good guy, and he's very bright and i'm sure he didn't mean to... do what he did. alright, thank you very much... and dad, love you too. he good guy? we don't know that he's not a good guy. we know he stole our idea we know that he lied to our faces for a month and half he never lie to our face he never saw our faces! fine, he lied to our e-mail accounts. so he got himself 42-days head start he knows what apparently you don't which is that getting there first is everything. i'm a competitive racer, div, i don't think you need to school me on the importance of getting there first. thank you. alright, that's was your father's lawyer? yeah, well his in-house counsel. he's gonna look at all this if he thinks it's appropriate he'll send a cease and desist letter. what, do you wanna hire an ip lawyer and sue him? no, i wanna hire the sopranos to beat the shit out of him with a hammer! - we don't have to do that. - that's right. we can do that ourself. i'm six-five, 220lbs, and there's two of me. i'm with this guy. whatever, i'm saying let's calm down until we know what we're talking about. how much more information are you waiting for. we met with mark 3 times, exchanged 52 e-mails, we can prove that he looked at the code... what is that on the bottom of page it's "a mark zuckerberg production" on the homepage? on every pages. shit. i need to let the classiness waft over me. ok, look... they wrote, "zuckerberg said that he hoped the privacy options... ...would help to restore his reputation following student outrage over facemash.com" that's exactly what we said to him. he's giving us "the finger" in the crimson while we're waiting for dad's lawyer to look this stuff over, we can at least... no... we're not starting a knife fight in the crimson and we're not suing anybody. why not? he's gonna say it's stupid. what, who? me? say it why not? because we're gentlemen of harvard. this is harvard. where you don't plant stories and you don't sue people. you thought he was going to be the only one who thought that was stupid? during the time when you say you had this idea, did you know tyler and cameron came from a family of means? a family of means? did you know that his father was wealthy. i'm not sure why you're asking me that. it's not important that you be sure why i'm asking you. it's not important to you. sy... did you know that they came from money? i had no idea whether they came from money or not. in one of your e-mails to mr. narendra you reference tate winklevoss consulting firm. if you say so. howard winklevoss founded the firm and its assets are in the hundreds of millions. you also knew that tyler and cameron were members of a harvard final club called the porcellian. they pointed that out? excuse us for inviting you in. to the bike room... so it's safe to say you were aware that my clients had money? yes. let me tell you why i'm asking. i'm wondering why... if you needed a $1000 for an internet venture you didn't ask my clients for it. they'd demonstrated to you an interest in this kind of thing... i went to my friend for the money because that he's who i wanted to be partners with... eduardo was presidents of the harvard inverstors association and he was also my best friend. your best friend is suing you for 600 million dollars. i didn't know that. tell me more! eduardo, what happen after the initial lunch? sy would you mind addressing as mr. saverin gretchen, they're best friend not anymore i already went through this on the... nevermind, mr. saverin... it's exploded, everybody on campus was using it "facebook-me" was the common expression after two weeks. and mark... and mark was biggest thing on a campus that included 19 nobel laureates, 15 pulitzer prize winners, two future olympians and a movie star. who's the movie star? does it matter? no. beautiful day. and i was up in my radcliffe dorm. he brought that magazine up and he saw it to me and he said, "look, it's gonna happen without us. we've got to start now." and i said... "okay." let's get basic hardware. most of you think you know the rest of story that you may not. the beginning of the industry were very humble... that kit computer on the cover of that magazine, had an 8080 processor in it. unless you paid extra for 1k memory board 256bits, so the challenges... isn't that mark zuckerberg? yeah - he made facebook? - yeah. i mean both of us. yeah, we... yes. cool. i'm christy lee. this is alice. nice to meet you facebook-me when you get home we can all go out and grab a drink. certainly, absolutely will do that. she said "facebook-me" and we can all go for a drink later. which is stunningly great for two reasons. one she said "facebook-me". right? and the other... - they wanna have drinks later. - yes have you ever heard so many different good things packed into one regular-sized sentence? excuse me. mark? yeah i'm stuart singer. i'm in your o.s. lab. sure. - awesome job with thefacebook. - awesome job. thanks. - i'm bob. - how are you doin'. you know, i could swear he was looking at you when he said the next bill gates could be right in this room. i doubt it i showed up late, i don't even know who the speaker was. it was bill gates. shit... that's make sense. alright, thanks guys. are you moron? are you medically stupid? you can't recognize bill gates in front of you for an hour? mark zuckerberg now thinks we got into harvard on a dimwit scholarship. i'm gonna get a glock... it's time to monetize the thing. what are their natives? - did you heard what i just said? - when? i said it's times to monetize the site what is that mean? it means time for the website generating the revenue. no, i know what the word means. i'm asking how do you want to do it? advertising. no. we've got 4000 members. 'cause thefacebook is cool. and if we start selling pop-ups for mountain dew it's not gonna be cool. well i wasn't thinking it would be mountain dew but at some point, and i'm talkin' as the business end of the company, the site... we don't even know what it is yet, we don't what it is... we don't know what it can be. we don't know what it will be. we know that it's cool, that's a priceless asset and i'm not giving it up. - so it won't be finish? - it won't be finish. that's the point, the way fashion never finish - what? - fashion, fashion is never finish. you talkin' about fashion, really you? i'm talkin' about the idea i'm sayin' that never finish ok, but they manage to make money, sellin' pants mark what is this? what? it's called the cease and desist letter. what were their names? - who? - the girls. when did you get this? about ten days ago. right after we launched the site hey, the girls what were their names? they're sayin'... the winklevoss twins are sayin' that you stole their idea. i find that to be mildly annoying. they find it to be intelectual property theft. - look... - why don't you show it to me? it was addressed to me they're sayin' that we stole thefacebook from divya narendra and the winklevoss... i know what it says. did we? did we what? don't screw around with me now. look at me the letter says we could face legal action. no, it says i could face legal action this is from lawyer, mark. they must feel they have some grounds for... the lawyer is their father's house counsel. do they have grounds? the grounds are our thing is cool and popular and harvardconnection is lame. wardo, i didn't use any of their code, i promise, i didn't use anything. look, a guy who builds a really nice chair doesn't owe money to everyone who's ever built a chair. ok, they came to me with an idea. i had a better one. why didn't you show me this letter i didn't think it was a big deal if there's something wrong, if there's ever anything wrong, you can tell me. i'm the guy that wants to help. this is our thing. now, is there anything that you need to tell me no. what are we doing about this? i went to a 3-l at student legal services and he told me to write them back. and what did you say? when we met in january, i express my doubts about the site, where it stood with graphic, how much programming was left that i had not anticipated... ...the lack of hardware we had to deal with the site use, the lack of promotion that we go on to successfully launch the website... this was the first time you raised any of those concern, right? i'd raised concerns before. bullshit not to us gentlemen. i'm talkin about at the meeting in january to which this letter is referring. yeah. let me re-phrase this. you sent my client 16 e-mails. in the first 15, you did't raise any concerns is that a question? in the 16th e-mail you raised concerns about the site functionality. were you leading them on for six weeks? no. why didn't you raise any of these concern before? it's raining. i'm sorry? it's just started raining. mr. zuckerberg, do i have your full attention? no. do you think i deserve it? what? do you think i deserve your full attention? i had to swear an oath before we began this deposition, and i don't want to perjure myself, so i have a legal obligation to say no. okay - no. you don't think i deserve your attention. i think if your clients want to sit on my shoulders and call themselves tall, they have the right to give it a try, but there's no requirement that i enjoy sitting here listening to people lie. you have part of my attention - you have the minimum amount. the rest of my attention is back at the offices of thefacebook, where my colleagues and i are doing things that no one in this room, including and especially your clients, are intellectually or creatively capable of doing. did i adequately answer your condescending question? i have 12:45, why don't we say that's lunch. back at 02:30. so what were their names? their names are christy and alice. and they wanna have drinks tonight i don't care. hey man, sorry, uhmm, couple of girls refreshing up in there. sweet... we have groupies. i'll be right back hey, where you goin'? mark... erica hey i saw you from over there - i don't know you came to this club a lot. - first time. mine too. can i talk you alone for a second? i think i'm good right here i just... i'd love to talk you alone right here is fine i don't know if you heard about this new website i launched. - no - thefacebook? you called me a bitch on internet, mark. that's why, i wanna talk to you... - on the internet... - if you could just... that's why i came over comparing women to farm animals? i didn't end up doing that. it didn't stop you from writing it. as if every thought that tumbles through your head is so clever, it would be a crime for it not to be share. the internet's not written in pencil, mark, it's written in ink, and you published that erica albright was a bitch. right before you made some ignorant crack about my family's name, my bra size... and then rated women based on their hotness. - erica, is there a problem? - no, there's no problem. you write your snide bullshit from a dark room because that's what the angry do nowadays. i was nice to you don't torture me for it. if we could just go somewhere for a minute... i don't want to be rude to my friends, - okay. - okay. good luck with your video game. dude, that's was great... that was right thing to do, you apologize, right? we have to expand. is he mad about something? okay, we're expanding to yale and columbia. dustin, i want you to share the coding work with me. chris, you're gonna be in charge of publicity and outreach. you can start by gettin' a story in b.u student newspaper. it's the bridge. they hate doing stories about harvard. somebody at the newspaper will be a computer science major. tell 'em mark zuckerberg will do 10 hours of free programming for them. why do you want a story in the b.u. newspaper... because i do. now, here's the arrangement. eduardo's cfo and owns 30% of the company. dustin's vice president and head of programming and his 5% of the company will come from my end. chris is director of publicity and his compensation will depend on the amount of work he ends up doing. - any questions? - who the girls? sorry, uhmm... they are christy and alice. - hi... - hi. hello. - is there anything we can do? - no, that's it. yale and columbia, let's go. - and stanford... - what? standford. it's time for them to see this in palo alto. - you don't want any lunch? - no. you're welcome to some salad. no, thank you. this must be hard. who are you? i'm marylin delpy, i introduced myself this morning. i mean, what do you do? i'm a second year associate at the firm. my boss wanted me to sit in on the deposition phase. what are you doin'? checking in to see how it's going in bosnia. bosnia? they don't have roads but they have facebook. you must really hate the winklevoss. i don't hate anybody. the winklevii aren't suing me for intellectual property theft. they're suing me because for the first time in their lives, things didn't work at the way they were supposed to for them. - he's expanding. - what? he's expanding to yale, columbia and stanford, it's gonna be in the crimson tomorrow. really? yeah. well, it's look like that cease and desist letter really scared the shit out of him, huh? i want to hire a lawyer to file for injunctive relief and get this website taken down now! look... every minute, the site's up, harvard connection become less valuable. i want an injunction, i want damages, punitive relief and i want him dead. i want those things too! then why aren't we doing anything about it?! because we're gentlemen of harvard?! because you're not thinking about how it's gonna look. how's it gonna look? like my brother and i are in skeleton costumes chasing the karate kid around a high school gym. cam, he violated massachusetts state law. when he goes to connecticut, new york and california he'll have violated federal law. and by the way, he's in violation of harvard law. there's no such thing as harvard law. wait, yes, there is. harvard student handbook. every freshman is issued one of this. somewhere in this book says... you can't steal from another student. this is what we needed. you can't get a meeting with larry summers. my brother and i pay tuition at this school, we carry a 3.9 gpa at this school, we've won trophies for this school and we'll be rowing in the olympics for this school. i want a meeting with the goddamn president of this school. why stanford? w- why do you think? i'm sorry, i'm late for bio chem.. okay. you don't know my name, do you? is it stanford? i should just kick your ass. how you go to party and you meet somebody... amelia ritter, but you prefer amy. you're from orinda your father in commercial real estate and your mother is 10 years sober. what's my major? trombone. really? i remember something about a trombone. "tu fais l'amour à la jolie fille et la mets de côté" *you make love to the pretty girl and put it aside* - french... - oui your major is french. and yours? mine? i don't have one. you haven't declared? i don't go to school. - you kidding? - no. where did you go to school? william elementary for a little while, seriously, you're not like 15 years old or anything are you? no. but you're not like 15, are you? no. so what do you do? i'm an entrepreneur. you're unemployed. i wouldn't say that. what would you say? that i'm an entrepreneur. well then, what was your latest preneur? well, i founded an internet company that let folks download and share music for free. kinda like napster? exactly like napster. what do you mean? i founded napster. sean parker founded napster. nice to meet you. you're sean parker. ah, you see, the shoe's on the other, uh, table which has turned. i just slept with sean parker? you just slept on sean parker. you're zillionaire. not technically what are you? broke. there's not a lot of money in free music. even less when you're being sued by everyone who's ever been to the grammys. this is blowing my mind. i appreciate that i gotta hop in the shower and get ready for class. biochem, even know you are in french major, whose name is amy. you passed. i'm a hard worker. there's juice or anything else you can find. help yourself. you mind if i check my e-mail? yeah. go ahead. amy... amy? yeah! can you come out here? just a second! there's a snake in here, amy. what? where? ok, there isn't snake but i need to ask you something. are you kidding me? i could've been killed! how? by running to you fast and gettin' twisted... what do you need to ask me? i went to check my e-mail and there's a website open on your computer. yeah. after you passed out last night, i went on thefacebook for 'lil bit. what's that? thefacebook? standford had it for, like two weeks now. it's really awesome except it's freakishly addictive. seriously, i'm on the thing like five times a day. you mind if i set myself an e-mail. yes, everything okay? everything's great. i just need to find... you, mark zuckerberg. i've never been in this building before. this building is a hundred years older than the country it's in. so do be careful. we're sitting in the chairs. yes. very good. you can go in now. that's just their own stupidity, i should have been there. darkness is the absence of light and stupidity in that instance was the absence of me. catherine, i've got students in my office now. students. undergrads. i don't know, from the looks of it, they want to sell me brooks brothers franchise. alright. good morning. good morning, sir. i'm cameron winklevoss and this is my brother, tyler. and you here, because... either of you can answer. i thought you were reading the letter. i've read the letter. well, we came up with an idea for a website called harvardconnection... that we've since changed the name to connectu, and mark zuckerberg stole that idea... i'm understand. i'm asking what you want me to do about it? well sir, in the harvard student handbook, which is distributed to each freshman... under the heading "standards of conduct in the harvard community" it says, the college expects that all students to be honest... and forthcoming in their dealings with members in this community. students are required to respect public and private ownership. instances of theft, misappropriation or... - ann... - yes sir. punch me in the face... go ahead. or unauthorized use will result in disciplinary action, including the requirement to withdraw from the college. you memorize that instead of doing, what? what my brother and i come, here today, to ask you, respectfully of course... sir, it's against university rules to steal from another student, plain and simple. you've spoken to your house-master. yes sir, and the house-master made a recommendation to the ad board but the ad board won't hear us. have you tried dealing with the other student directly? mr. zuckerberg hasn't been responding to any of our e-mails or phone calls for the last two weeks. he doesn't answer when we knock on his door at kirkland. and the closest i've come to dealing with him face to face is when i saw him on the quad, and i chased him through harvard square. you chased him? i- i saw him and i know he saw me and after a minutes he disappeared. i don't see this as the university issue. of course this is a university issue. there's a code of ethics and an honor code and he violated them both. you entered into a code of ethics with the university, not with each other. i'm sorry president summers, but what you just said makes no sense to me at all. i'm devastated by that. what my brother means is if mark zuckerberg breaking into our dorm room and stole our computer, that would be university issue. i don't know this office doesn't handle petty larceny. this isn't petty larceny. this idea potentially worth millions of dollars. - millions? - yes. you might just be letting your imaginations run away with you. sir, i actually don't think you're in any position to make that call. i was the u.s. treasury secretary, i'm in some position to make that call letting our imaginations run away with us is exactly what we were told us to do in your freshmen address. i would suggest that you let your imaginations run away with you on a new project. - you would? - yes, everyone at harvard is eventing something. harvard undergraduates believe that inventing a job is better than finding a job. so i suggest again that the two of you come up with a new, new project. i'm sorry, but that's not the point, sir. please what's the point. you don't have to be an intellectual property expert to understand the difference between right and wrong. and you're saying that i don't. of course i'm not saying that. i'm saying that. - really? - sir... ann... how do they get this appointment? colleagues of their father... let me tell you something mr. winklevoss, mr. winklevoss, since you under subject of right and wrong. this action, this meeting, the two of you being here is wrong. is not worthy of harvard, is not what harvard saw in you... you don't get special treatment! we never ask for it... just start another project? like we're making a diorama for the science fair? if you have problems with that mr. winklevoss we never ask for special treatment. the court are always at your disposal... is there anything else, i could do for you? thank you very much for your time, sir. ups, broke 335 years old your door knob. eduardo, spring break, you and mr. zuckerberg took a trip to new york. what was the purpose of the trip? well, as cfo, i'd set up some meetings with potential advertisers. who paid for the trip? it was paid for out of the thousand dollar account i'd set up a few months earlier. at this point your thousand dollars was the only money that had been put into the company. yes. how did you feel the meetings went? it went terribly. why? mark was asleep. i was not asleep. can i re-phrase my answer? i wish he'd been asleep. so we're at 29 schools now with over 75.000 members. people who go on thefacebook tend to stay on longer than almost any other website. now here's the most impressive statistic, 61% of people who try it once, will come back... now if you'll allow me... excuse me, one second... what sound that he's making? is that like a tsk... it wasn't tsk... guys, what is this? there was one more meeting scheduled for the new york trip. yes, it was a dinner. it was set up through my girlfriend at the time. would you say that mark was excited about this meeting? yes, very. - look, they're not gonna card us... - they might. i mean look around. it'll be embarrassing. tell him they're not gonna card us. they're not gonna card us. mark... are you gonna talk about ads again? unless you're the ballet theatre of hartford, the purpose of a business is to make a profit. this isn't a business, yet. that's tough for me because my job... nevermind. he's 25 mins late. he founded napster when he was 19, he can be late. he's not a god. then what is he? he's 25 minutes late. i think wardo's jealous. i honestly wasn't jealous. i was nervous. why? i didn't know him at all but i had done a search and asked around... he struck me as kind of a wild card. why? he crashed out of two pretty big internet companies in spectacular fashion, he's had a reputation with drugs. he also founded the companies. we don't need him. he's here. no, no, take your time. and he does own a watch. stop it. i'm sean parker. how do you do. you must be eduardo and christy and mark, great to meet you. you guys don't have anything in front of you. tori... we were waiting... hey baby boy. could you bring out some things? the lacquered pork with that ginger confit, tuna tartar, and the lobster claws, that'll get us started. christy what do you like to drink? an appletini great. four of those. from that point on it was a sean-a-thon. the question was what did you talk about? he took us through his episode with napster. i didn't want to spend my twenty as a professional defendant who knew the music industry doesn't have a sense of humor. we tried to sell the company to pay the 35 millions they said we owed in royalties, but i guess to them that was a little like selling a stolen card to pay for the stolen gas. so we said, screw it, we declare bankruptcy. you made a name for yourself. and you are dry. - tory... - no, no, i'm good. and then he went to his second business venture which was an online rolodex. and i want to do it nice this time, i put on a tie, i shine my shoes. but nobody want to take orders from a kid. so let me tell you what happen... i'm not psychiatrist, but i'm glad with got that on record. you're not a psychiatrist, but what... a psychiatrist would say that he was paranoid. they hire private detectives, who follow you day and night. you are target for hi press-escort. i can't prove it but i know they tap my phone. whatever it is that's gonna trip you up, you're done already. private behaviour is really cover time gone by... and then somehow and someway you've manage to live your life like a dalai lama don't mixed it up. because they don't want you, they want your idea. and they want you to say thank you while you, excuse me... wipe your chin and walk away. that's what happen to you? and delusional. yes, but... they'll be pay back. in case i brought down the record company with napster and i left the company since then too. sorry, you didn't bring down the record companies. they won. in court. yeah. you wanna buy a tower record, eduardo? and he told story after story about life in silicon valley, parties at stanford and down in la, friends who'd become millionaires, but mostly how mark had to, he had to come to california. and then he cut around to thefacebook. so tell me about your progress. well, we're in 29 schools now, we got over 75 thousands members... tell me about the strategy. ok, for instance, we wanted baylor in texas but baylor already had a social network on campus so instead of going right after them, we made a list of every school within a hundred miles and put thefacebook on those campuses first. pretty soon all the baylor kids were seeing their friends on our site. - we were in. - its called a little bait for a big one. that's smart, mark. thanks that's was mine. easy. hey you know what, settle an argument for us, i say it's time to start making money from thefacebook but mark doesn't want advertising. who's right? neither of you yet. thefacebook is cool, - that's what it's got going for it. - yeah. you don't want to ruin it with ads - because ads aren't cool. - exactly. it's like you're throwing the greatest party on campus. and someone's saying, it's gotta be over by 11:00. that's exactly right. you don't even know what the thing is yet. how big it can get and how far it can go. this is no time to take your chips down. a million dollars isn't cool. you know what's cool? you? a billion dollars. and that shut everybody up. and that's where you're headed. a billion dollar valuation. unless you take bad advice in which case you might as well come up with a chain of very successful yogurt shop. when you go fishing you can catch a lot of fish or you can catch a big fish. you ever walk into a guy's den and see a picture of him standing next to fourteen trout? no he's holding an 3000 pound marlin. - yup. - that's a good announce. but we all know, that marlin won't weight 3000 pounds, right? - i've seen a big one at close - no, i haven't. but i don't think the guy holdings a marlin at size of a range rover. that would really big fish or a very strong guy. you think i might be getting away from the point? i don't have a dog in this fight. i'm just a fan who came to say hi. he owned mark after that dinner. he picked up the check, he told mark they'd talk again soon and he was gone. but not before he made his biggest contribution to the company. drop the "the". just facebook. it's cleaner. shit. that's gotta be some kind of land speed record for talking. you want to end the party at eleven? i'm trying to pay for the party. there won't be a party unless it's cool. what'd you think? yes, sure, let's drop the "the" i meant catching the marlin instead of the 14 trouts. doesn't that sound good? if you're a trout. i'm going to enter this into the record. incorporation papers for facebook, and llc registered in florida, - why florida? - that's where my family lives. and ask the respondent to stipulate that the documents of incorporation state the ownership as follows, sixty-five percent for mark zuckerberg, 30 percent for eduardo saverin and 5 percent for dustin moskowitz. we stipulate and that was april 13th 2004 you can mark it. do you have anything here? yes, thank you. mr. saverin, have you ever done anything that might be considered legitimate ground for termination? no. you never did anything to embarrass the company or even seriously jeopardize it? no. no? no. you were accused of animal cruelty. wait. you weren't? t- this not happening. i have here an article from the crimson... jesus christ... i can't have this, wardo. come on, man this is bullshit, this is another clubs playing a prank. i'd gotten into the phoenix. i'd been accepted and as part of my initiation, i had to, for one week, carry with me all the times and take care of a chicken. they identify you as one of the founders of thefacebook, "junior eduardo saverin," i'm not the expert but being connected to torturing animals is probably bad for business. i did not torture the chicken, i don't torture chickens, are you crazy? no, and settle down, please. i have here, an article from the crimson... this is scathing. nine-hundred-fifty-six. i was having dinner in the kirkland dining hall with mark, and i had the chicken with me because i had to have the chicken with me at all times. this was college. somebody gonna have to answer for this. nine-hundred-sixty-nine. dining hall was serving chicken for dinner and i had to feed my chicken. so i took... little pieces of chicken and gave it to the chicken. someone must have seen me because the next thing i knew i was being accused of forced cannibalism. i didn't know you could't do that. i dealt with the various animal rights groups, i dealt with the associate dean of the college, this was all resolved. nine-hundred-eighty-eight. someone from the porc or the fly must have reported it. for all i know it was the winklevoss... alright, let's just forget about it. this is absurd, i'm being accused of animal cruelty. better to be accused of necrophilia. it is better to be accused of necrophilia. i have to explain this to my father, i'm gonna explain this to everybody, i'm gonna... what is happening on that? i have my final coming up for "postwar and contemporary art". and i haven't been to class. i'm supposed to write about those four paintings. is that a facebook page? yeah, i opened it under an alias. i posted the paintings and asked people to comment. every once in a while, i hop on and stir the pot to get a good debate going. mr. zuckerberg was cheating on his final exam? i'd rather not answer that, gretchen. then why not? because i'm not suing him for cheating on his final exam and so that's not what friends do. well you just told us he was cheating. oops. you told your lawyers i was torturing animals?! no, he didn't tell us about it at all. our litigators are capable of finding crimson article. in fact when we raised the subject with him he defended you. oops. nine-ninety-three, we are so close. oh yeah, that reminds me, we're gonna need more money, wardo. i agree. more servers, more apps... i'm interviewing two interns to come to palo alto and we're gonna have to pay them something. sorry what? i already found a house for rent on a street two blocks from the stanford campus. it is perfect and it's got a pool. when did you decide to go to california for the summer? you mean when did i actually decide? somewhere in the middle of the sean parker variety hour? he was right. california's the place we've gotta be. is you jed clampett? you guys got the beverly hillbillies in brazil... yes, we got the show in brazil, it was genius. what is your problem with sean? he doesn't bring anything to the table. he doesn't have money, dustin's a better programmer... he's got connections to the vcs. we don't need vcs, we need advertisers and i've got connections to the vcs. - the real players and... - look as someone who's really embarrassed the company in a bad way... it was the winklevosses, mark! hang on. hit refresh. 150.000 members, wardo. congratulations, dude. congratulations. you don't think it was strange? that he was followed by private detectives? who came up with nothing. enough to get him out of the company. the drugs, the girls... we don't know any of that's true. you can read about it. i can read about your torturing birds. since when reading something about... don't fish eat other fish?! the marlins and the trout?! what's he talkin' about? i'm interviewing interns at 10 tomorrow night in the cs lab. get on board with this man, you know... i don'60 you know i didn't understand anything you just said, right? - i do know that. - so what't really know what else to say. what's goin' on? they have 10 mins to get root access to a python web server, expose its ssl encryption and then intercept all traffic over its secure port. they're hacking. all behind a pix firewall emulator. but here's the beauty. every 10th line of code written, they have to take a shot. and hacking's supposed to be stealth, so anytime the server detects an intrusion, the candidate responsible has to take a shot. i also have a program running that has a pop-up window appear simultaneously on all five computers... the last candidate to hit the window has to take a shot. plus every three minutes they all have to take a shot. three minutes. can i ask, what part of the interns jobs will they need to be able to do drunk? you're right. a more relevant test would be seeing if they can keep a chicken alive for a week. that was mean. here... what is this. i opened a new account and put $18.000 in it. will that get you through the summer? welcome to facebook. - yes. - in addition to the $1000 you'd already put up. - yes. a total of $19.000 now. - yes. - hang on. i'm just checking your math on that. yes, i got the same thing. may i continue? after expressing misgivings about mr. zuckerberg taking the company and moving it to california for the summer, why did you turn around and put $18.000 in an account for his use? i figured we were partners. i wanted to be a team player. i figured mark, dustin and the new interns could work on the site. while i was on generating advertiser interest in new york. but mostly i figured, how much could possibly go wrong in three months? i'm ok. you sure... yikes. that's the doorbell i don't know we had a door bell. andrew get the door. no, he's wired in. that's gonna cut into the security deposit. andrew... not now. good boy - sean - mark. - do you live here? - yeah. do you? we were right across the street, we saw the chimney... yeah is anybody hurt? no. you live across the street. i'm841 --> 01:19:41,911 you came to california. yeah. you made the right choice. here you go. sharon. this is my... sharon. she lives across the street and i was helping her move out when we saw the chimney... yeah, we had a zip line to the pool. - i'm so sorry. - no problem i don't know you're gonna... - here you go. - no, no, wait... this house and this team are great. it's exactly what it should be. i'm sean parker. oh, he's wired in. that's what i'm talkin' about. where's eduardo? he got an internship in new york. eduardo didn't come out? i was crashing there for a little bit while i'm taking care of some things. but she's done for the sum90 --> 01:20:58,888 mark. i'm sorry, i was looking at the architecture. i asked, "what's your plan for the summer?" i hit school bmer so she's back at her parents place. homeless rockstar of palo alto. alright. what your plan for the summer? - i'm going to the rest room - okay. i'll go with you. your date looks so familiar to me. she looks familiar to a lot of people. what do you mean? a stanford mba named roy raymond wants to buy his wife some lingerie. but he's too embarrassed to shop for it at a department store. he comes up with an idea for a high end place that doesn't make you feel like a pervert. he gets a $40,000 bank loan, borrows another $40,000 from his in-laws, opens a store, and calls it victoria's secret. makes a half million dollars his first year. he starts a catalog, opens three more stores and after five years he sells the company to leslie wexner and the limited for four million dollars. happy ending, right? except two years later, the company's worth 500 million dollars. and roy raymond jumps off the golden gate bridge. poor guy just wanted to buy his wife a pair of thigh highs. my date is a victoria secret model. that's why she looks familiar to you. don't be impressed by all of this. i read your blog. oh, oh you know, no thats for webprints. you know how i started napster. girl i love in high school. was with the co-captain of the varsity lacrosse team and i wanted to take her from him so i decided to come up to next big things. i didn't know that. napster wasn't the faillure... i changed the music industry for better and for always. they might not have been a good business but it piss a lot of people off. and this now what your facemash about, they scare of my pal, what the vcs wanna to say, good idea kid, grown up so we could take it from here. but not this time, this is our time. this time you gonna hand them a business card that says i'm a ceo... bitch. that's what i want from you. where the hell was eduardo? he's in new york. he's got an... internship. the company's here. a billion dollar company is here. do you live and breathe facebook. yes i know you do. eduardo want to be a businessman for all i know he gonna be a good one but he shouldn't be in new york. and the water under the golden gate is freezing cold. look at me face tell me i don't know what i talkin' about. do you ever thinkin' about that girl... what girl? the girl from high school with the lacrosse team... no. hundred schools by the end of the summer? yup. i tell you what, gesture of a good faith. while you're getting into a hundred schools, i put you on two continents. two continents. if you don't get a place to crash i think you should definitely come in live with us. let's line-up some shots. excuse me... - yes, sir. - you can take this away and bring back don julio 1942. absolutely, mr. carter. thank you. and this is my brother cameron. excellence. his royal highness, prince albert. sir, this is cameron and tyler winklevoss. of course. brilliant race. i've never seen a race that close. my grandfather, jack kelly, was one of the premiere rowers of his day. i've been coming to henley for 30 years. and i've never seen the race that close. have you seen a race that close? no, your highness. mile and a half races are more commonly won by a boat length or two. yes, that's absolutely right. brutally close. may i introduce my team mates... i'm sorry you have to excuse us... until the beijing. so you flew out here to see that? wouldn't miss you brother. how was the royalty? i just want him to tell me couple more times, how close the race was just brutal, brutally-brutally- excruciating. cam. the guy's the prince of a country the size of east hampton. relax. its fine... - boys. - dad mr. winklevoss. that was a tough beat. i'm sorry you and mom flew all over here to see that. don't ever apologize to me for losing a race like that. don't ever apologize to anyone for losing a race like that. boys. mr. kenwright. dad, this is mr. kenwright, head of the host family this week. pleasure to meet you. good to meet you. i just had a phone chat with my daughter. she told me that she and her friends are all talking about the race, which they just seen by the computer. a new website called facebook. do you have this in america? i'm going to find your mother... is it something wrong? your daughter doesn't go to school in states? no, no. cambridge. majoring in french literature, though i wasn't aware these was such a thing. they have facebook at cambridge? and apparently oxford and the london school of economics because that's where her friends are. it's awesome. good race, boys. i'm gonna go to rest room. i wanna to see it. stop it, cam. knock it off. i don't mind that we loss by the dutch by less than a second. that was a good race, that was a fair race. and they'll see us again. what i mind and what you should mind, is showing up on monday for race which run on sunday. we tried talking to him ourselves, we tried writing a letter, we tried the ad board, and we tried talking to the president of the university. now i'm asking you. for the last time. let's take the considerable resources at our disposal and sue him in a federal court. come on... i need a real drink. screw it, let gut that freaking nerd. that's what i'm talking about. no, i saw him today. maningham, michael maningham, my chase equity... are you guys using spike or ghost, miss? we don't know, we're just shooting at each other. use sweet kamikaze. like we know what that is. i saw him getting into his turbo carrera, and he saw me too, i know he did. don't sweat it... bong hit. is anybody hear that banging? you don't hear anything, you are writing code. dude, somebody's at the door. i'm gonna call you back. - what's up - what's up? mark was supposed to pick me up at the airport an hour ago, i've been calling his cell. he was on a 36 hour coding tear so he took a nap for a couple of hours. what happened here? not happened... happening. the next big thing. wardo! hey man. back to work. how old are they, sean? it's not polite to ask. how old are they? you think you know me, right? i've read enough. you know how much i've read about you? nothing. wardo. i waited an hour for you at the airport. what time is it? it's midnight. or 3am in new york where i just came from. you've gotta see some of the new stuff we've got. hey, dustin, show him the wall. i'm just calling it the wall. forget the wall, tell him about the meeting i've got set up. - you know peter thiel? - no. no reason you should. he just run a two billion dollar hedge fund called clarium capital. why's he setting up meetings? thiel may want to make an angel investment. i don't care if he's an actual angel, why's he setting up business meetings? you've had a long flight. no, i've had long wait on the tarmac at jfk, then a long wait at the passenger between there was a long flight. i run the business end of this company, he's a house guest living here rent-free on a very generous grant from eduardo saverin foundation. i heard about you big ticket advice, gerry's tuxedos, harvard bartending course. you're just one small step away from bagging snookies cookies, i can feel it. can i talk to you alone for a minute? sure. bong hit! how's it going? how's the internship? how's christy? how's the internship? yeah. mark, jesus, i quit the internship. we've talked about this on the phone, we... i quit on my first day. i do remember you saying that. so, how's christy? she's crazy. is that fun? no. she's actually psychotic. she's insanely jealous, she's irrational and i'm frightening of her. still, it's nice to have a girlfriend. i do not want that guy representing himself as part of this company. you gotta move out here, wardo, this is where it's all happening. - did you hear what i just said? - the connections, the energy... mark... i'm afraid if you not come out here. you gonna left behind. i want, i want, i need you. out here, please don't tell me... what you just say? its moving faster than any of us ever imagine... it's moving fast then sean think... seans is not part of the company. we've got over 300.000 members, we're in 160 schools... i'm aware of that. including five in europe... - i'm aware of that, mark, i'm the cfo. - we need more servers than i ever imagined... we need more programmers. and we need more money. he set up the thiel meeting. he's set up meetings all over town. he's set up other meetings? yes. without me knowing anything about it?! you're in new york! i'm in new york riding subways 14 hours a day try to find our... how's it going so far?! what did you mean get left behind? can i help you? i'd like to freeze this bank account and cancel all existing checks and lines of credit. may i see some id please. - sean they will be right with you... - no problem. you know this is where they filmed towering inferno. that's comforting. guys... come at my back. - she offer you some waters? - oh, yeah we're cool. come on in... you must be mark. hi. we took a look everything and congratulations. we're gonna start you off with a $500.000 investment. maurice is gonna talk to you about some corporate restructuring. we'll file as a corporation in delaware and come up... with a stock structure to allow for new investors in. now lemme ask you something. who's eduardo saverin? jesus chris... when did you get back? you scared me. i need you to knock. when-did-you-get-back? i got back this afternoon. and when you gonna call me? chris... it was kind of a rough trip and i was tired and... or answer one of my 47 texts? did you know i sent 47 texts? i did and i thought that was incredibly normal behavior. are you mocking me? i brought you a present. why does your status say "single" on your facebook page? what? why does your relationship status say "single" on your facebook page? i was single when i set up the page. and you just never bothered to change it? i... what?! i don't know how. do i look stupid to you? no. calm down. you're asking me to believe that the cfo of facebook, doesn't know how to change his relationship status on facebook? it's a little embarrassing so you should take it as as sign of trust that i would tell you that. go to hell. take it easy. you didn't change it so you could screw those silicon valley slut every time you go out to see mark. that is not ever remotely true and i can promise you... that the silicon valley slut don't care what anyone's relationship status is on facebook. please open your present. your phone does work. it's mark. okay, this is gonna be tricky. open your present. it's a silk scarf. have you ever seen me wear a scarf? this'll be your first. you froze our account? i did. you froze the account. i had to get your attention, mark. do you realize that you jeopardized the entire company? do you realize that your actions could've permanently destroyed everything i've been working on? we've been working on. without money, the site can't function. ok let me tell you the different between facebook and everybody else, we don't crash ever. if the servers are down for even a day, our entire reputation is irreversibly destroy. look... seriously, i think friendster prove that! even a few people leaving would reverberate through the entire user base. the users are interconnected, that's the whole point! college kids are online because their friends are online. and if one domino goes, the other dominoes go! i'm not going back to the carribean night at a-e-pi. holy shit...! what's wrong with you! did you like being nobody?! did you like being a joke? do you wanna go back to that?! hang on, hang on... that was the act of a child, not a decent man. and it truly wasn't the act of a friend. you know how embarrassed i was when i tried to cash a check today? i'm not going back to that life. maybe you were frustrated. - maybe you were angry, - i was. but i'm willing to let bygones be bygones because i've got a good news. look, i'm sorry. i was angry and maybe it was childish. but i had to get your attention. eduardo, i said i've got some good news. what is it? peter thiel just made an angel investment of a half million dollars. what? half million dollars and he's setting us up in an office. they want to re-incorporate the company, they want to meet you and they need your signature on some documents. so get your ass on the first flight back to san fransisco. i need my cfo. i'm on my way. wardo. yeah. we did it. wardo, you're going back there already? yes. and also i'm breaking up with you. four documents. these first two are common stock purchase agreements, allowing you to buy stock in the newly re-incorporated facebook as supposed the old share which is now worthless. the third is the exchange agreement, allowing you to exchanges the old shares for new shares and then finally voter holding agreement. how many shares of stock will i own? jesus christ. that's a 34,4% ownership share. why they increase from the original 30%? because you may need to dilute it to award shares to new investors. i love working with business majors. economics. you should know that mark's already taken his percentage from 60 down to 51. well, mark doesn't care about money and he needs to be protected. dustin moskowitz owns 6,81%, sean parker 6,47% i can live with that. and peter theil 7% would you like to use my pen? eduardo? can you please repeat the question? no. it was an outrageously leading question, the first time. now you want to hear it twice? would you re-read that please? go ahead. and when you signed these documents, were you aware that you were signing your own death certificate? no. it was insanely stupid of me not to have my own lawyer look over all the... uh, in all honesty i thought they were my lawyers. i was your only friend. you had one friend. my father won't even look at me. okay. eduardo. did mr. zuckerberg saying anything to you after you signed the papers? there was a lot of handshaking and a lot of congratulations. he'd already told me he wouldn't be coming back to school for at least a semester. so we were saying goodbye for a while. and then before i left, he said... but you gotta come back. somewhere around the end of november or early december. peter wanna throw us an amazing party when we hit a million members, it's gonna be out of control. you gotta come back for it. a million members. yeah. the algorithm on the window at kirkland? yeah. yeah, i'll be here. - you sure about this? - you're 20 mins late. you're gonna walk in there and say you overslept and you didn't have time to get dressed. they're gonna pitch you. chase equity is going to pitch you. they're gonna beg you to take their money. you're gonna nod, you're gonna nod, you're gonna nod and then you're gonna say, "which one of you is ralph" no, not ralph... no manningham. which one of you, michael manningham? and he'll say i am. then you'll say, sean parker says "f*ck you." walk out. okay. in late november i got the e-mail from mark telling me to come out for the millionth member party. what else did e-mail say? it said that we had to have a business meeting. that mark and sean had playing some kind of revenge stunt to chase equity. manningham was so impressed that he was makin' an investment offer that was hard to turn down. i went out to california and i went straight to the new offices. i didn't know whether to dress for the party or the business meeting so i kinda dressed for both. but it didn't matter. why not? because i wasn't called out there for either one... what were you called out there for? an ambush. mr. saverin. hi... at first i thought he was joking, giving me more contracts to sign. but then i started reading. what is this? well, as you know we had some new investor that... what is this? mark... mark...! - he's wired in. - sorry he's wired in. - is he? - yes. how about now, you still wired in? call security! you issued over 24-million new shares of stock. you were told that if new investors came along... how much your shares are diluted? how much are his?! what was mr. zuckerberg's ownership share diluted down to? it wasn't. what was mr. moskowitz's ownership share diluted down to? it wasn't. what was sean parker's ownership share diluted down to? it wasn't. what was peter thiels's ownership share diluted down to? it wasn't. what was your ownership share diluted down to? point-zero-three-percent. you signed the papers. you set me up. you blame me because you were the business head of the company, and you made a bad business deal with your own company?! it's gonna be like i'm not part of facebook. it won't be like you're not a part of facebook, you're not part of facebook. my name's on the masthead. you may wanna check again. this is because i froze the account? you think we were gonna let you parade around in your ridiculous suits, pretending you were running this company? sorry, my prada is at the cleaners, along with my hoodie and my 'f*ck you' flip-flops, you pretentious douche bag! security is here. you'll be leaving now. i'm not signing those papers. we will get your signature. tell me this isn't about me getting into the phoenix. you... you did it. i knew you did it. you planted the story about the chicken. i didn't planted the story about the chicken. what he talking about? seriously, what the hell with the chicken? and i'll bet what you hated the most, they said they identified me as a co-founder of facebook. which i am! you better lawyer-up, asshole, 'cause i'm not comin' back for 30% i'm comin' back for everything! get him outta here. it's okay. i'm going. hang on... almost forgot. here's your $19.000. i wouldn't cash it though. i drew it on the account you froze. i like standing next to you, sean. it makes me look so tough. that's it. that's our show for tonight, people. look, i want to see everybody here get geared up for a party. we're gonna walk down to the club like it's the macy's parade. mackey, put it up on the big screen, we've gotta almost be there. - you alright? - yeah. you were kinda rough on him. that's life in the nfl. no. you didn't have to be that rough on him. sean... you didn't have to be that rough on him. he almost killed it! i'll send flowers. speaking of flowers, i'm putting together a party after party at kappa eta sigma. ashleigh there's a sister. ashleigh. the intern. i know who she is. are you guys? ashleigh and me... no... a little bit. why? excuse me, mark. we were just talkin' about you, you're doing a really good job. thanks. i appreciate that. this came in for you. put on my desk. what's the package. nothing. mackey... yes, sir. refresh! and you need a hugger, i know. 1 millions, who's got champagne? ...a pic sharing application. it is the true digitalization of your life. you don't just go to a party anymore, you go to a party with your digital camera, and then your friends re-live the party online. and tagging. the idea... would this be easier without the bra? it's worth finding out. stop the music, now! i've spent hours... watching what people do when they log on they check friends status update, that's weird, why the music off... checked to see which of their friends had changed their profiles, changed their photos and mostly... seriously, what happen with the music we lived on farms, and then we lived in cities and now we're going to live on internet sean. stop, i think something's goin' on downstairs. please... time to go home! party is over. it's the cops! shit. good to see you officer... what can i do for you. what's goin' on? was the music too loud? we were havin' celebration. miss, i need you to button your blouse. i can tell them to turn the music down... that's not mine. ok, we gonna need identification, keep your hand where we can see 'em anything else in your pocket, i should know about? no, sir. no. - don't be stupid now. - i don't, i... what this that's an epipen. - and this? - that's my inhaler. how old are you? i'm 21 lying only would make it worst! i'm sorry, i shouldn't have lied. - hello? - listen, something's happen... shit. it's alright, it's gonna be alright. i've posted bond. i wasn't doing anything. i mean, i've got allergies... - interns... - it was just a party this gonna be news, sean. it's gonna be online, any second. i know. you know with an intern... it's cool, i have it under control i will get it under control. i will call someone and see what the next move is. but this gonna be news now. you don't think eduardo was involve, do you? - do you think? - no. or manningham, one of them, somebody, somebody sent the cocain there, 'cause it got in there. you believe me, it's gonna be fine... right? go home sean. mark... mark... we're done for the day yeah, i was just sittin'... what happened to sean? he still owns 7% of the company. all you had all day only was that salad, you wanna get something to eat? i can't. i'm not a bad guy. i know that. under emotional testimony, i assume 85% of it is exaggeration. - and the other 15? - purgery creations myth needs a devil. what happens now? sy and the others are having a steak on university avenue. then they'll come back up to the office... and start working on a settlement agreement to present to you. they're gonna settle? oh yeah... and you're gonna have to pay a little extra. why? so that these guy sign an non-disclosure agreement. they say one unflattering word about you in public, you own their wife and kids. i invented facebook i'm talking about what a jury. i specialize in voir dire... jury selection. what a jury sees when they look at the defendant. clothes, hair, speaking style, likability... like-ability? i've been licensed to practice law for all of 20 months. and i can get the jury to believe... that you planted the story about eduardo and the chicken. watch, what else? why weren't you at sean's sorority party that night? you think i'm the one that called the police? doesn't matter, i ask the question, now everybody's think about it you've lost your jury in the first 10 mins. - farm animals? - yeah. i was drunk, and angry and stupid. - and blogging... - and blogging. pay them, on the scheme of things. it's a speeding ticket. that what sy will tell you tomorrow. do you think anybody would mind if i stay and use the computer for a minute... i can't imagine that would be a problem. thanks. i appreciate your help today. you're not an asshole mark... you're just trying so hard to be... cameroon and tyler winklevoss received a settlement of 65 million dollars and signed a non-disclosure agreement. they rowed for the u.s. olympic team in beijing and placed sixth. eduardo saverin received an unknown settlement. his name has been restored to the facebook masthead as a co-founder. facebook has 500 million members in 207 countries. it's currently valued at 25 billion dollars. mark zuckerberg is the youngest billionaire in the world. # wasior # mentawai # merapi floods - tsunami - earth quake & vulcano #pray for indonesia support and contribute act for humankind how to help : www.pmi.or.id indonesian red cross ## baby, your a rich man ## "baby, you're a rich man by the beatles" sub. made & uploaded by npdv-id npdv.indoheroes [at] gmail.com