united 1523, did you hear your company, did you hear… …couple of minutes ago, screaming. we did hear that, uh, yelling too. yes i did, 797, and, uh, we couldn’t tell what it was either. …trying to figure out what’s going on… united 93, cleveland. american airlines emergency line, please state your emergency. the flight attendant is advising our reps that the pilot… everyone’s been stabbed and um, i think there’s mace …that we can’t breathe. i dont know i think we’re getting hijacked hijacked aircraft headed towards new york. is this real world or exercise? no, this is not an exercise. can anybody get up to the cockpit? what’s going on, betty? betty, talk to me. a plane’s crashed into the world trade center… i think we might have lost her. hey, ma, sure that you’ve heard… that a plane crashed into world trade center one. baby, you have to listen to me carefully. i’m on a plane that’s been hijacked. i hope to be able to see your face again, baby. i love you! goodbye! …of another incoming plane. we may have to take cover. are they gonna be able to get somebody up here? of course, ma’am, we’re coming up to you. well, there’s no one here yet and the floor is completely engulfed we’re on the floor and we can’t breathe. hold for one second, please i’m gonna die, aren’t i? — no, no, no, no, no, no. — i think i’m gonna die. ma’am, ma’am, now, i’m gonna die. look, stay calm, stay calm, stay calm, stay calm. please, god… you’re doing a good job, ma’am, you’re doing a good job. no, it’s so hot, i’m burning up. …fine, they’re gonna come get you. can anyone hear me? oh, my god… i own you, ammar. you belong to me. look at me. you don’t look at me when i talk to you, i hurt you! you step off this mat, i hurt you! if you lie to me, i’m gonna hurt you! now! now, look at me! look at me, ammar! come on. — nobody talks to him. — roger that. are we gonna board these windows up or what? just off the plane from washington… rocking your best suit for your first interrogation, and you get this guy. — they’re not always this intense. — i’m fine. well, just so you know, it’s gonna take a while. he has to learn how helpless he is. come on, let’s get a coffee. no, we should go back in. you know, it’s no shame if you wanna watch from the monitor. all right. might wanna put this on. you’re not wearing one? is he ever getting out? never. let’s go. right now, all this is about, simply, is you coming to terms with your situation. it’s you and me, bro. i want you to understand that i know you… that i’ve been studying and following you for a very long time. that i could’ve had you killed in karachi, but i didn’t. i let you live, so that you and i could talk. then you beat me when my hands are tied. so i won’t talk to you. well, life isn’t always fair, my friend. did you really think… that when we got you, “i would get a nice fucking guy”? you’re a mid-level guy. you’re a garbageman in the corporation! what should i respect you, huh? — why? — and you’re a moneyman. paperboy. a disgrace to humanity. you and your uncle murdered 3,000 innocent people. yeah. i have your name… on a $5,000 transfer via western union to a 9/11 hijacker. and you got popped… with 150 kilograms of high explosives in your house! and then you dare question me? come on, man, i’m fucking with you. no, i don’t want to talk about 9/11 yet. what i want to focus on is the saudi group. that, there, is hazem al-kashmiri. and i know this dude is up to some serious shit. what i want from you is his saudi e-mail. ammar, bro, i know that you know this dude. just give me his e-mail, and i will—i will give you a blanket. i will give you a blanket and some solid food. i know that you know him. i told you before, i won’t talk to you. have it your way. let’s go. come on. when you lie to me, i hurt you. grab me the bucket. — huh? — c’mon, grab the bucket. put some water in it. come on, let’s go! come on, give it to me. hazem was a friend of ramzi yousef. you guys met in iran back in the nineties. i don’t know! fuck you! i want the e-mails of the rest of the saudi group. give me one e-mail and i will stop this. who’s in the saudi group? and what’s the target? where was the last time you saw bin laden? where was the last time you saw bin laden, huh? you know when you lie to me, i hurt you. this is what defeat looks like, bro. your jihad is over. get him up. try to understand the concept here. okay, i have time. you don’t. i have other things to do but you don’t. it’—it’s cool that you’re strong. i respect it, i do. but in the end, everybody breaks, bro. that’s biology. can you open the trunk, ma’am? it’s clear. how’d it go the other night? it was good. i mean the local cops need a little tactical help, but… he’s tier-fucking-one, baby. that’s your money maker right there. and this is the guy that’s ksm’s nephew. — yeah. — and what’s his issue? he’s being a dick. if he’s trying to outsmart you, why don’t you tell him about your phd? yeah. no, but i am gonna have to turn up the heat on this asshole. he needs to give up the saudi group now. he’s gotta have that, given the family ties. he’s tight with his uncle. he’s got his prints all over 9/11 money. he’s got ‘em in his head, he needs to disclose ‘em. good. bill, she’s good to go. i’ll get her the right one tomorrow. was i lying or what? uh, maya, this is joseph bradley, our illustrious station chief. joe and i did iraq together. — it’s nice to meet you. — you too, sir. — how’s your flight? — fine. um, she’s been having a great time since she got in, isn’t that right? good. how do you like pakistan so far? it’s kinda fucked up. you volunteered for this, didn’t you? no. third floor, northeast corner. you don’t think she’s a little young for the hard stuff? — washington says she’s a killer. — hmm. children’s crusade, huh? they wanna put the next generation on the field. listen, i’ve got a meeting with isi in twenty minutes. they’re slow-rolling us on lahore, you might wanna bitch about that. did i tell you this? that, uh, this dude in malaysia, he tells a malaysian station that his nephew — works with a guy, who knows a guy… — aww, here we go. no, hold on. he goes to a big feast in bangkok, about a year ago. guest of honor: osama bin laden. — except if it was tupac there… — this is worth 5 million bucks. you know we gonna have to chase it down. he’s like, “hey, that’s me, man. no job too small.” that’s why i have a gift for you, my friend. everyone, agent maya. maya, everyone. please don’t ask her how it’s going with ammar, ’cause she’s not gonna fucking tell you. ammar is withholding. washington assesses abu faraj as officially the new “number 3”. he’s the best man for it. uh, yeah, the london station’s already asking if he’s contacting anybody in the uk. like we’re just keeping it from them? yeah. jordanians are being really helpful with ammar’s transit papers. any imminent threats in here? oh, we’ve one on the consulate, the marriott, it’s low-security, um, and they’ve got maj khan talking about our gas stations in the us. and that’s a conversation? honestly, there’s 600 questions in there. i’d do heathrow, the saudis. does it matter what faraj thinks about heathrow? how much latitude does he get to pick targets? um, i think he’ll give up the saudis, but heathrow’s gonna be tough. anyway, uh… anything from last night? qatar base six have a bead on the arabs that escaped, they’re meeting with isi this afternoon, hopefully set up a raid down there. great. and lahore reporting, isi was painfully slow last night, again. they’re beginning to think it’s not incompetence. okay, agree. i spoke to the chief about that. anything on bin laden? uh, farmer on the afghan border near tora bora… reports a diamond-shaped pattern in the hills, tall male in the center of the diamond, flanked by four guards, consistent with ubl’s movements. that’s supposed to be his royal guard. no, that’s pre-9/11 behavior. we have no reason to believe he’s changed security tactics. we invaded afghanistan, that’s a reason. hey, boss. i got a guy, for 5,000 bucks, he can set up a taxi stand, and snoop around a bit. no, don’t need him. sorry, the diamond sighting is bullshit. uh, see if the paks will send someone to talk to the farmer. anything else? no? all right, let’s put some runs on the board against faraj, okay? talk to the case officers who didn’t see fit to make it today, and “thank” them. tora bora, yeah? — uh-huh. — good. come on, here we go. here we go. all right, let’s just, uh… let’s take it easy today, huh? you hungry? food in here sucks, so i brought you some of this. pretty good, huh? richard reid. oh, man, i was thinking about him. the guy gets a bomb in a shoe on a plane. un-fucking-believable. you know him, don’t you? yes. i’m glad you said that. okay, uh, i got an e-mail from you to him, with all your comms for years, bro. who, um… who else is in your saudi group? i just handed out some cash for them. i didn’t know who the guys were. when you lie to me, i hurt you. please. i believe you. i do, i believe you. it’s good, huh? do you want the water again? or do you want something else? — water? — please. just… give me a name. i don’t know! come on, let’s go! bring him up. here we go! you see how this works? you don’t mind if my female colleague here checks out your junk, do you? no? good. dude, you shit your pants? you stay here, i’ll be back. your friend is an animal. please, help me. please. you can help yourself by being truthful. this is a dog collar. — no! — hang on. you determine how i treat you. come on. i got you. come on. come on. you’re my dog, i gotta walk you. what the fuck do you think is going on, ammar? walid has already told me that you know, hmm? here we go. this box here. this box sucks. and i’m gonna put you in it. when is the attack? when is the attack? — s… — what? — what? — “ahad.” (sunday) sunday, where? whoa… sunday, where? sunday. this sunday or next sunday? where? what? come on, ammar, is it sunday or monday? partial information will be treated as a lie. come on, let’s go. come on, which day is it? partial information… you gonna go in the box, huh? partial information is treated as a lie! let’s go! — saturday! — in the box you go! — sunday! — almost. monday! — tuesday! — huh? there we go. — friday! — come on, let’s go! come on! — hang on… — sunday. — monday. — shh… thursd… ammar, which day is it? which day? frid… — ammar, which day? — thursd… frid… “yalla! yalla! yalla!” (let’s go!) “yalla! yalla! yalla!” …attack against westerners and foreigners. when you look at the break-up of casualties, you can see that non-muslims were killed, and so were americans… you don’t worry about the saudis, they’ll take care of business. yeah, now. you warned them, they didn’t take you seriously. this is what happens. it’s not on you. oh, and who said that, huh? zayid? fuck him. this is on me. ammar is on me, — no, no, no. now, you had what, days? — and it’s on her. and, we do not, — brief custody, unresponsive ally? — we cannot let this be a win–win for aq the way you do this, is look ahead. london, heathrow, mass casualties. the plan is still active. ammar doesn’t have a clue about what happened. — oh, he knows. — how? oh, you have to be really careful with people in ksm’s circle, they’re devious. he’s not gonna talk about attacks in the homeland. he’s gonna withhold operational details on the ksm network and probably bin laden. but he’s been in complete isolation. he doesn’t know we’ve failed. we could tell him anything. what? bluff him? he hasn’t slept in. he’s clueless. you don’t remember, do you? well, short-term memory loss is a side effect of sleep deprivation, so it should come back to you. i don’t know. how can i remember? after we kept you awake for 96 hours you… gave us the names of some of your brothers, and you helped save the lives of a lot of innocent people. which is a smart thing to do when you’re starting to think for yourself. mm–hm. come on, eat up, man. some hummus, tabbouleh, don’t know what that is, some figs. you earned it. so uh you flew via amman to kabul, yeah? hang out with your uncle. mukhtar. — how did you know that? — i told you, man, i know you. all right, you got me. you did, you got me. flight manifests. it must be pretty fucked up for you guys after 9/11. and what did you do, um, what did you do after the invasion? before you went back to pesh? after 9/11, we had to choose. fight to protect our turf or run. and you chose to fight, yeah? we wanted to kill americans. yeah. we tried to get into tora bora, but the bombing was too high. we couldn’t cross. i’m sorry, who’s the “we” in that sentence? me, and some other guys who were hanging around at that time. you know, i can always go and eat with some other dude, hang you back up to the ceiling. hamza rabia. khabab al-masri. and abu ahmed. who’s abu ahmed? i’ve heard of the other guys. he was a computer guy with us at the time. after tora bora, i went back to pesh, as you know. mm-hm. and they went north, i think, to kunar. what’s his family name? abu ahmed al-kuwaiti. abu ahmed means “father of ahmed”, it’s a kunya. ammar, i know the difference between a war name and an arabic name. she got you there, dude. i swear to you both, i don’t know his family name. i would have never asked him something like that. it’s not how my uncle worked. i know. my uncle told me he worked for bin laden. um, i did see him, once, about a year ago, in karachi. he read us all a letter from the “sheik”. a letter? what’d it say? cigarette? it said, “continue the jihad.” “the work will go on for a hundred years.” you and i are gonna talk about some of the guys at the training camps, yeah? okay. some of these brothers have done some bad things. what i wanna do is, i wanna separate them from the people like you. definitely, yeah. all right, a guy called abu ahmed, from kuwait. yes, i remember him. the nice guy. how close was he? what was his relationship to the leadership? i don’t know. did he eat with you guys? did he eat with the good guys, or did he eat with the leadership? i don’t know, sir. i have no idea about it. that’s something you don’t need an idea about. when you met khalid sheikh mohammed, was this one of the facilitators? is this abu ahmed? — ksm, your boss. — mukhtar. “mukhtar”… “potato”… you say, “po–tah–to”; i say, “fucking ksm”; you say, “mukhtar”, okay? now, after mukhtar was captured, what did abu ahmed do? abu ahmed. i believe… i believe, he went to work for the “sheik”. is that him? — say it. — abu ahmed. — say it again. — abu ahmed. abu ahmed! abu ahmed. (french) est-ce qu’il travaillait directement pour ben laden? on peut pas savoir qui travaille directement pour ben laden. tout ce que je sais, c’est qu’il fait partie du groupe. tu connais d’autres gens qui portaient des messages pour ben laden? ben on va en parler un p’tit peu alors. hein. tu vas m’en parler? how’s the needle in the haystack? fine. facilitators come and go. one thing you can count on in life is that everyone wants money. you’re assuming that al-qaeda members are motivated by financial rewards. they’re radicals. correct. you’re assuming that, uh, greed won’t override ideology in some of the weaker members. money for walk-ins worked great in the cold war, i’ll give you that. thank you. he says it looks like abu ahmed. who did he work for? he was mostly with abu faraj. they were always together. what did he do for faraj? he carried messages from abu faraj to bin laden, from bin laden back to abu faraj. we need to ask him something to see if he’s telling the truth. we don’t know if he really knew faraj. he just told me the names of all of abu faraj’s children. i think he’s telling the truth. twenty detainees recognized that photo of abu ahmed. they say he’s part of an inner circle of guys that was hanging out in afghanistan pre-9/11. a lot of them say that after 9/11, he went to work for ksm. when ksm was captured, he went to work for abu faraj. primarily as a courier, from faraj to bin laden. that’s good, but you still don’t have— yeah, but we don’t know if abu’s on the outside of the network. a series of cut-outs and dead drops, or if he has a direct connection to bin laden. i mean, does bin laden invite him into the living room, and hand him a letter directly, or is abu just the last guy in a long line of couriers, and that’s why everybody knows him. that’s not all you don’t know. you don’t have his real name, you don’t have a clue of where he is. yes, but we know that he’s important. the fact that everybody’s heard of abu ahmed, but nobody will tell me where he is, suggests that. maybe. detainees can withhold his location for any number of reasons. perhaps they don’t know. perhaps this “abu” is actually a cover story and he’s really a fucking unicorn. but the withholding doesn’t reveal what you want it to, does it? no. and if you did find him, you don’t know that he’d be with bin laden. we don’t know what we don’t know. what the fuck is that supposed to mean? it’s tautology. listen, not one single detainee has said that he’s been located with the big guy, just that he delivers messages, am i wrong? — no. — no. it’s still good work. let me know when you’ve got some actual intelligence. preferably, something that leads to a strike. this is what remains of the no. 10 bus, which was travelling through tavistock square, near euston station. there’d been explosions near liverpool street and edgware road stations too. dozens of the survivors were critically injured, but many of the wounded were also keen to share their stories. we just pulled out of edgware road, and next thing i know, is a loud, um, large flash of light. uh, i felt a burning sensation on my hands, put my hands up to my face… uh, i was on the floor by that point… yeah, i can’t recall anything prior to that anymore. any noise, any bang… normal life in one of the busiest parts of the capital has now been suspended. just a few yards down the road here, they continue to care for the injured. and all around, groups of londoners are standing on corners, asking themselves, “what has happened here, and who could possibly have done this?” come on. you too, come on. you agency guys are twisted. detainee’s ready for you. come on. oh, whoa, whoa, whoa! i want you to understand that i know you i’ve been following you, and studying you, for a long time. i chased you in lahore. i had you picked up instead of killing you, because you’re not a violent man, and you don’t deserve to die. thank you. but you do have deep ties to al-qaeda i want to ask you about, before you get sent to your next location, which might be israel. however, depending on how candid you are here today, i may be able to keep you in pakistan. what do you want to know? i’m gonna ask you a series of questions, based on your knowledge of al-qaeda, and your position as key financier for the organization. i have dealt with the horrors. i have no wish to be tortured again. ask me a question, i will answer it. what can you tell me about atiyah abdul-rahman? he works for zawahiri. he’s in charge of military tactics. in what context have you ever heard the name abu ahmed? he works for faraj and bin laden. he is his most trusted courier. what makes you say that? he brought me many messages from the “sheik”. where did you last see him, and where is he now? — you will never find him. — why is that? even i couldn’t find him. he always contacted me out of the blue. he’s one of “the disappeared ones”. you’re in luck, i got you a one–on–one with faraj. seriously? thank you. don’t you thank me until you hear what i want for it. i want you to take care of all this before your favorite subject. deal. don’t you wanna see whats in the folder? you want family ties, financial networks media sources, disgruntled employees, imminent threats, homeland plots, foreign sales, health status, financial resources, tradecraft, recruiting tactics, anything else? — no, i think that covers it. — yeah. huh? “what they say is true. the shaolin and the wu-tang could be dangerous.” what do you like to be called? “faraj”, “fareej”, “buzzie”? c’mon, dude, what do you like? you like a bit of, uh… you guys like a bit of bob marley, with the reggae? kick back, take it easy after you’ve blown some shit up? huh? no? got some libyan music you like? you did the uk bombings, right? well, you’re the second “number 3” i’ve captured. i got ksm. can i be honest with you? i’m bad fuckin’ news. i’m not your friend. not gonna help you. i’m gonna break you. any questions? no? all right, you haven’t eaten in 18 hours. we need to keep your energy up. you hungry? a lot of brothers told us, abu ahmed was bin laden’s courier, and that he worked very closely with you. you are thinking of abu khaled. — who? — al-baluchi, my courier for the “sheik”. okay, so you’re telling me, all the other brothers are wrong. and there’s some famous “baluchi” guy, working for you and bin laden, that i’ve never even heard of. — why should you have heard of him? — what does this baluchi guy look like? tall. long white beard. thin. he uses a cane. kinda like gandalf. who? when was the last time you saw him? a month ago, in karachi. but i don’t know where he is now. sometimes, i wouldn’t even see him. he would just tell me, where to leave the messages. you’re not being fulsome in your replies you cannot force me to tell you something i don’t know. you do realize this is not a normal prison? you determine how you’re treated and your life is gonna be very uncomfortable, until… you give me the information i need! where exactly is abu ahmed living at the moment? faraj is completely denying knowing abu ahmed. that’s using every measure we have. well, he’s either gonna keep withholding or he’s gonna die from the presssure you’re putting on him. hey, you wanna take a run at him? no. no? — no. — since when? no. you know, i was meaning to tell you, i’m getting outta here. — you okay? — yeah, i’m fine, i’m just… you know, i’ve seen too many guys naked. it’s gonna be over a fucking hundred at this point. i need to go and do something normal for a while. like what? i’ll go to washington, do the dance, see how that environment works. you should come with me. yeah, be my number two. you’re looking a little strung out yourself. i’m not gonna find abu ahmed from dc. they killed my monkeys. some bullshit about escaping, you fucking believe that? sorry, dan. look, maya, you gotta be real careful with the detainees now. okay, politics are changing, and you don’t wanna be the last one holding a dog collar, when the oversight committee comes. — i know. — yeah? and watch your back when you get back to pakistan. everyone knows you there now. sorry. fucking checkpoints. — maya? — yeah? we’re socializing. be social. okay. look, i know abu ahmed is your baby, but it is time to cut the umbilical cord — no, it’s not. — so faraj went south on you, it happens, there are still cells in london and spain, who are planning the next round of attacks. i could work on it at the same time. plus, i think it’s a good thing he lied. no, not at the expense of protecting the homeland, you can’t… wait a minute. why is it a good thing? you sound just like bradley. he doesn’t believe in my lead either. it’s a good thing, because the fact that faraj withheld on abu ahmed is very revealing. the only other thing faraj lied about, was the location of bin laden himself. that means faraj thinks abu ahmed’s just as important to protect as bin laden. — that confirms my lead. — or it’s confirmation bias. mmm… we’re just worried about you, okay? is that okay to say? i mean, look how run-down you are. where’s jack? probably stuck in some checkpoint, somewhere. you two hooked up yet? hello, i work with him. i’m not that girl that fucks. it’s unbecoming. so, a little fooling around wouldn’t hurt you. hmph… — so, no boyfriend? — mm–mm. you got any friends at all? that’s jack. hey. that’s okay. come on! come on! go! come on, over here! the blast left a crater, 10 meters or 30 feet wide, in front of the hotel. police tell cnn, the driver of the truck bomb tried to talk his way pass the hotel’s steel security gate. when armed guards said no, police said the driver detonated more than 2,000 pounds of explosives. the marriott, one of the most popular destinations for locals and westerners in islamabad, now destroyed. the jords have a mole. what? he made this video to prove his bona fides. shut up. humam khalil al-balawi. he’s a jordanian doctor. he’s right there in the inner circle. i don’t buy it. didn’t you tell me yourself, nobody turns on al-qaeda? the jordans have worked him for a year, dinners, money. they convinced him… it’s his patriotic duty to turn on al-qaeda, and get rich doing it. — yeah, well, so the jords say. — yeah, you’re right. we can’t rely on this or the jords. we’ve gotta evaluate him face to face. he may not be that smart, he may be full of shit. but we have to talk to him and find out. the key is to meet him, so we can figure out for ourselves what he can actually do. he really asked for a dialysis machine? maybe we can fill the damn thing with poison. the meeting with balawi is off. he can’t come to islamabad. — can’t or won’t? — he’s not gonna travel. security risk. …and, uh, i’ve said repeatedly, that america doesn’t torture. and i’m gonna make sure that we don’t torture. those are part and parcel of… an—an effort to regain, uh, america’s moral stature in the world. can you give us some sense of when you might start… he… wants us to go to him. he’ll meet us in maidan shar with the tribals. he knows you’re white, we’d get kidnapped there. could we do it somewhere else? germany? in the uk? he’s got a clean passport. he’s not gonna travel out of al-qaeda territory. — and you’re not going to him. — i’m not, believe me. we’re stuck. what about camp chapman… afghanistan? that can be safe territory. this may be going overboard, but i baked him a cake. muslims don’t celebrate with cake. don’t be so literal, everyone likes cake it’s not too late for you to come, you know, it’ll be fun. no, i don’t want to be a straphanger. it’s your show. you were the first to see the potential in this. oh, come on, we’ve got lots of wine. cool, bring me back a bottle. that, i will do. not to get technical, but this guy is actually the first big break we’ve had since 9/11. to big breaks, and the little people that make ‘em happen. so far, everything he’s said, we’ve cross-checked, and it’s proved legit. and i think the money is persuasive. 25 million dollars? that buys a new life. do you think he might be exaggerating his access? possibly. but, al-qaeda needs doctors, and they are short-staffed, and… that could explain his rise. in six months to a year, if he doesn’t fuck up, he could be called in to treat bin laden. at that moment, with 25 mill on the table, i think he gives up the big man. and if he doesn’t, we kill him. — john. — yeah. when he arrives, let me set the tone, and then i’ll flip it to you, and you can talk about asset protection. — roger that. — uh, lauren, i know you wanna get some questions in there, but give balawi a little time. after john speaks, we’ll cover the basics, have his birthday cake, then we’ll get into the nitty–gritty. is that order okay? or d—do you wanna introduce everyone? i’ll introduce you, you introduce your team. — he knows this is a high-level meeting. — quick question. all this taking place inside our main building? right, and, uh, lauren, washington will want real-time updates, so please, stay on top of that. be concise, the director’s in the loop… and i wouldn’t be surprised… if he doesn’t update the president. yeah, i’m on it. now, i just gotta get his ass down here. why are there gate guards there? we talked about this, no one is supposed to be there when my source arrives. you might have spooked him already. well, procedures only work if we follow them every time. this is different. i’m sorry, i can’t explain, but it’s for a good cause. look, i’m responsible for everybody’s safety, okay. it’s not just about you. i just need them to go away for a minute. you can search him as soon as he gets here. all stations, this is whiplash. go ahead and stand down. copy that. thank you. okay, he’s coming. — we gonna search him when he gets here — sure. okay, let’s go. — is he supposed to limp like that? — get your hand out of your pocket. — hey. — “allah hu akbar.” (god is great) — hey! — get your hand out of your pocket — do it now! — “allah hu akbar.” — get your hand out of your poc… — “allah hu akb—” the cia says, seven of it’s employees were killed, and six others wounded, in a suicide bombing in a base in afghanistan. it was one of the deadliest attacks in cia history. the associated press has learned that… the chief of the cia’s post in the province, is among the victims. former officials say, she was the mother of three. the taliban claimed resposibility for the bombing… — you okay? — mhm. i, um, didn’t think this day could get any worse… but, uh… bad news from saudi intelligence. the, um… courier guy, abu ahmed, is dead. it’s a detainee video. he’s dead. in afghanistan, 2001, i buried him with my own hands. he’s dead. in afghanistan, 2001… and where was this? kabul. no, i don’t believe this. i don’t believe this. sorry, maya. i always liked this lead. sorry i just got here. what are you going to do? i’m gonna smoke everybody involved in this op. and then i’m gonna kill bin laden. right. right. i wanna make something absolutely clear. if you thought there was some… secret cell somewhere, working al-qaeda, well, i want you to know that you’re wrong. this is it. there’s no working group coming to the rescue. there’s nobody else hidden away on some other floor. there is just us. and we are failing! we’re spending billions of dollars. people are dying! we are still no closer to defeating our enemy. they attacked us! on land, in ‘98, by sea in 2000, and from the air in 2001 they murdered 3,000 of our citizens, in cold blood. and they have slaughtered our forward–deployed! and what the fuck have we done about it, huh? what have we done? we have twenty leadership names. we’ve only eliminated four of them. i want… targets. do your fuckin’ jobs, bring me people to kill. hi, i painstakingly combed through everything in the system and found this. it’s him. he was one of ten names on a watch list sent to us by the moroccans after 9/11. ibrahim sayeed. they told us to watch out for him. apparently, they think his whole family and extended family is bad, and has ties to ksm. he was picked up for fake papers and a doctored exit visa leaving afghanistan, traveling through morocco, en route to kuwait. abu ahmed al-kuwaiti. this must be abu ahmed. doesn’t matter. god, i wish i had that five years ago. — how come i never saw it before? — nobody saw it, most likely. there was a lot of white noise after 9/11. countries wanting to help out. we got a million tips, and… you know, things got lost in the shuffle. human error. anyway, i thought you should know about it. i just wanna say, i’ve heard a lot about you. you’ve inspired me to come to pakistan. maybe you’d let me buy you a kebab sometime. don’t eat out. it’s too dangerous. — yup. — dan, debbie found abu ahmed. really? yeah, he’s been in the files this whole time. the family’s name is sayeed. okay, but he’s, uh, he’s dead, so doesn’t that make him a little less interesting to you? he may not be. we now know abu ahmed is one of eight brothers. all the brothers in the family look alike. three of them went to afghanistan isn’t it possible that when the three eldest brothers grew beards in afghanistan, they started to look alike? i think the one calling himself abu ahmed is still alive. the picture we’ve been using is wrong. it’s of his older brother, habib. he’s the one that’s dead. okay, and what are you basing this on? we have no intercepts about abu ahmed dying. we just have a detainee, who said he buried a guy, who looked like abu ahmed. but if someone as important as abu ahmed had died, they’d be talking about it online, in chatrooms all over the place. plus, the detainee said that habib died in 2001. we know abu ahmed was alive then, trying to get into tora bora with ammar. that means it’s probably one of the other brothers that’s dead. — in other words, you want it to be true — yes, i fucking want it to be true! whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, calm down. — calm down. — i am calm. state your request. move heaven and earth… and bring me this fucking sayeed family’s phone number. okay, i’ll go and talk to the wolf. — as-salam alaykum. (peace be unto you) — wa-alaykum salam. (and unto you peace) i need a couple of hundred thousand bucks. four max. — where’re you gonna get that? — from you. — you think so? — yeah. this could crack open the facilitator maya’s been looking for, by giving us a phone number. she’s your killer, wolf, you put her on the field. come on, “bismillah ar-rahman ar-raheem” (in the name of god, most gracious, most merciful) allah rewards those that strive and fight, over those that sit behind a desk. as you know, abu ghraib and gitmo fucked us. the detainee program is now flypaper. we got senators jumping out of our asses. and the director is very concerned. they will not stop until they have a body. i ran it. i’ll defend it. done. i tell you what, man, it’s good to be back in kuwait. it’s good to see you again. huh? it’s been a while. i need a favor. why i should help you? because we’re friends. you’re saying we are friend. how come you only call me when you need help? but when i need something, you are too busy to pick up the phone. — i don’t think we are friends. — all right, fair enough. how about a v10 lamborghini? how’s that for friendship? poor fucker had to get out of bed. hey. — as-salam alaykum. — wa-alaykum salam. — thank you very much for this. — you’re welcome. appreciate it. all right. — ooh, is this a balboni? — yeah. fuck me dead. it’s nice, really nice. what are you thinking? huh? maybe a convertible? get a little wind in the hair? huh? put the top down? i think i will choose this one. give us a minute? thank you. that’s a nice choice, my friend. speed yellow, go big or go home, huh? nice choice. sayeed. — who is it? — who do you think? guy’s a terrorist. his mother lives here. i just need her phone number. there will be no repercussions in kuwait? i mean, somebody might die, at some point, in pakistan. we got a deal? hey, jack. sayeed family call in progress, but you’re not gonna like this. the ground branch guys are dragging their heels, there’s no team deployed right now. fuck. he hasn’t said anything incriminating, but he’s at the rawal call center in rawalpindi. hey! why haven’t you deployed a team to stay in rawalpindi? for one thing, it’s dangerous. for another, the area is too congested for us to be effective, without some predictive intelligence. — yeah, but that’s why you should forward deploy, so you can shorten the response time. — it still wouldn’t work. — why? the guy never stays on the phone long enough. — you haven’t tried. — look, i don’t have the personnel. — that’s bullshit, man. — yeah? as it is, my guys don’t get any sleep, tracking the threats within pakistan. right, i understand. but, you know, i don’t really care if your guys get sleep or not. this guy you are obsessed with. what’s his name again? abu ahmed al-kuwaiti is the nom de guerre. his true name, we think, is ibrahim sayeed. family lives in kuwait. we’ve been listening in on their calls. wasn’t it… like, eight brothers and a million cousins that we know about? — anyone could be calling home. — i know. i mean, it’s not like he’s saying, “hey, mom, it’s me, the terrorist.” yeah, i know. but, look, over the course of two months, he’s called from six different payphones from two different cities, never using the same phone twice. and when his mother asked him where he was, he lied. he said that he was in a place in the country with bad cell reception, implying he was in the tribals. when, in fact, he was in a market in peshawar. i’m sorry but that’s not normal guy behavior, that’s tradecraft. or maybe he just doesn’t like his mum. look, if he talks about an operation or… refers to anything remotely fishy, i’ll get on him. — okay? — no, no, not okay, look. abu ahmed is too smart to tip his hand, by talking about ops on the phone. he works for bin laden. the guys that talk about ops on the phone don’t get that job. a lot of my friends have died, trying to do this. i believe i was spared, so i could finish the job. it is in surveillance video and pictures like this of the explosive-laden vehicle just moments before it was parked, that police hope to find the man, who wanted so badly last night, to leave a body count in times square. there are some people around the world, that find our freedom so threatening, that they’re willing to kill themselves and others, to prevent us from enjoying it, but we’re not gonna let that happen… hey, i really need to talk to you about beefing up our surveillance operation on the caller. we don’t have a surveillance operation on the caller. someone just tried to blow up times square and you’re talking to me about some facilitator, who some detainee, seven years ago, said, — might have been working with al-qaeda? — he’s the key to bin laden. i don’t fucking care about bin laden, i care about the next attack. you’re gonna start working on the american al-qaeda cells. protect the homeland. bin laden is the one who keeps telling them to attack the homeland. if it wasn’t for him, al-qaeda would still be focused on overseas targets. if you really wanna protect the homeland, you need to get bin laden. this guy never met bin laden! this guy’s a freelancer working off the fucking internet. no one’s even talked to bin laden in four years. he’s out of the game. he may well even be dead. he might as well be fucking dead. but you know what you’re doing? you’re chasing a ghost while the whole fucking network grows all around you. you just want me to nail some low-level molar–cracker–doler, so you can check that box on your resume that says, while you were in pakistan, you got a real terrorist. but the truth is, you don’t understand pakistan, and you don’t know al-qaeda! either give me the team i need, to follow this lead, or that other thing you’re gonna have on your resume, is being the first station chief to be called before congressional committee, for subverting the efforts to capture or kill bin laden! you’re fucking out of your mind. i need four techs and a safe house in rawalpindi… four techs and a safe house in peshawar. either send them out, or send me back to dc, and explain to the director why you didn’t. i’ve been looking for you. but more importantly, he’s been looking for you. yesterday, your caller bought himself a cell phone. and every time his phone rings, this phone will ring. did i hook you up? did i? my guess is that he lives close to where he’s making the calls. and it makes sense he’d be living in rawalpindi, because there’s an al jazeera office there. it’d be convenient for him to drop the tapes off, if he’s messengering, either from bin laden, or to an intermediary. so, when he wants to make a call, he leaves the house, walks a few blocks, then switches on the phone. we need to keep canvassing the neighborhood until we find him. we got a shooter. we’re blocked. let me talk to them. they said whites faces don’t belong here. if they don’t move, shoot them. he’s still on? — he’s east of us, try the market. — okay, heading east. fuck. we got a signal on tipu road for ten minutes. then he went to umar road for 5 minutes, nogaza road, darya abad, that’s in the umar road area. in rawalpindi, haider road. roomi road. he went to the convoy road, which is near the hospital, all right? so that’s haider, roomi road, zahid, nogaza, taimur. he made a call from hapur street. that’s the spice district. lahore street, which is also in pesh — 30 minutes. wazir bagh road — 5. nishtarabad — 5. phandu road — 5 minutes. the grand trunk road — 45 seconds. there’s no pattern. sometimes, he calls every two weeks, sometimes, every three. there’s no consistency. i can’t predict when he’s gonna make another call, ‘cause the guy’s erratic. meanwhile, our chief foreign correspondent, richard engel confirms the cia’s top spy in pakistan has been pulled out of there. he’s been receiving death threats, after being named publicly in a lawsuit, by the family of a victim of a us drone attack. richard engel quotes a senior intelligence official as saying, the officer is returning to the us, after the decision was made that terrorist threats against him, in pakistan, were of such a serious nature, it would not be smart not to act. isi fucked you. i’m so sorry, joseph. still on tower three. signal getting stronger, 10… 15… keep going. signal’s getting weaker. we lost him, no signal. heading south. he’s up at 5 again. he’s moving fast, he’s in a vehicle. weaker now, he shifted. go back to 5. he’s close by here, somewhere. i don’t get it. he’s driving in circles. — no change? — no. now let’s hope he comes back around. okay, 15… we’re within ten meters of it. back to 40. — he’s here somewhere. — look at the cars. look at the cars, he’s in a vehicle. the guy with the phone in the white car. you see him? — is that him? — could be. — you got him? — got him. okay, breaking off. the guy you’ve been looking for, geolocated, on his cell phone, in his white car. thank you. if you’re right, the whole world’s gonna want in on this. so, you gotta stick to your guns now. okay. no, it’s great to speak to you too i’m—i’m amazed that you’re still here. well, i—i can do, um… let me have a look, um… why don’t we say 1:30. yeah. uh, can you just hold the line, please? i need a picket line along the gt highway, and men spaced at intervals — along the road, and at every exit. — maya, i know. so, you agree with me now, this is important. no, i’ve just learned from my predecessor, that life is better when i don’t disagree with you. our current hypothesis is that he lives somewhere along the highway, in one of the towns, or a medium-sized city called abbottabad, or up near kashmir. kashmir is interesting because it’s a way station for the tribals. abbottabad is interesting because we know from detainee reporting that abu faraj stayed there, briefly, in 2003 the good news is he’s driving a white suv. suvs are actually pretty rare in pakistan. if he was driving a sedan or a compact, we’d be fucked. obviously, this assumes he doesn’t change vehicles. — morning. — morning, hamad. “yalla, yalla…” any american in pakistan is a target. they don’t necessarily know i’m cia. doesn’t matter. you’re on a list. yeah. and you, of all people, should know that once you’re on their list… you never get off. next time, there may not be bulletproof glass to save you. we’ll keep up on the surveillance as best we can. the high-res version, can you get closer than that? yeah, well, you can up-res this image. even more? okay, that’s good. thank you. i’ll take that. thank you very much. — take that too. — you got it-“ch”. .. to clean that audio as well, just take the low one out. hey. all right, so tell me how i’m doing so far. basically, we had a guy who rolled with al-qaeda, and did services for him. — mm–hm. — we lost him for seven years. now we find him again, and… boy, does he have a really nice house. — is that it? — pretty much. all right, let’s go talk to the boss. oh, you, uh, you should sit back there. — sorry. — no. so they’re gonna ask, if bin laden is at the end of this rainbow… is the pak military with him? the question isn’t: are the paks protecting bin laden? the question is: would he allow himself to be protected by the paks? i mean, why would he trust them? he tried to kill musharraf. — hello. — sir. all right, go ahead. so a little context here, if you take a right, out of islamabad, drive about forty-five minutes north, you’ll find yourself here in abbottabad. now it’s a mostly middle-class community, some ex-military. not particularly interesting to us. except we did find this compound, which is unique. we got a 16–foot wall around the entire perimeter. the windows are blacked out. there’s even a 7–foot privacy wall here, so, even if we got up high, we couldn’t get a vantage point. i mean it’s— it’s a fortress. well, can’t you put a camera somewhere? in these trees here, maybe? get a look in the main house? it would probably be discovered. well, we have to get a look into the house, don’t we? all right. what’s this? this cluster of buildings down here? the pma. it’s the pakistani military academy. it’s their west point. and how close is that to the house? about a mile. 4,221 feet. it’s closer to eight–tenths of a mile. but who are you? i’m the motherfucker that found this place, sir. really? all right, i wanna know more about who’s inside this house by the end of the week sir. motherfucker. good. morning, george. 21 days. it’s been 21 days since we found the house, nothing’s happened. yeah. maya, it’s steve. — swing by, i wanna show you something. — okay. okay, you can leave it paused for now, but we’re gonna play through that— hey! — maya, come see. — yeah. okay, this is from a few minutes ago, okay? yeah. so remember, we’ve got two males, two females and seven kids. what’s that? okay, i’m saying that’s bushra, the brother’s wife. whoa, whoa, how do you know the gender? well, look, this is a clothesline right here for laundry. men don’t mess with the wash. okay, now watch, it takes her about four seconds to move from there, to the front door, so she’s on the older side. — what’s that up there? — uh, those are kids, they’re shuffling around, sword fighting or something, with sticks. you can see their height relative to this. these are cows. so, they’re probably between 7 and 9. — boys, definitely. — wow, your female’s moving fast. okay, that’s what i wanted to show you. can we pause this please? that’s not the same lady. that’s female number three. — so you found two males, three females. — that’s correct. so, if there are three females, there ought to be three males. observant muslim women live with their parents, over their husbands. we think there’s a third family, living in the house. so, this third male that you’ve identified as possibly being bin laden, do i give up all hope of ever seeing a photograph of him? hope? yeah. you give up your hope, right now. we scan for heat signatures. but we can’t validate if it’s a man or a woman up there. we talked about burrowing a pinhole camera, but there’s a… high risk of discovery. we found a safe house, but we can’t get a vantage point to fire a telescope over the balcony wall. we have explored the possibility, of digging tunnels, of sending hot air balloons, of rerouting supply c-130s to take a peek, but that might be too alerting. we’ve looked for ways of collecting available dna from his trash, you know, looking for his toothbrush, but they burn the trash. we started a vaccination program, sent a doctor to the house, see if he could pull blood. but that didn’t work out. we thought about sending a guy with a bucket, to pull a sample from the sewer, to analyze his fecal matter. what was wrong with that, exactly? what was wrong with that? that, uh… the sample would be too diluted. and it’s asking too much to get a voice confirmation with him on the phone? they don’t make telephone calls from the compound. we pulled the cell tower nearby. and i’m also going to give up hope that he might ever get in that white suv, and… drive around a bit and we could see him. don’t they get groceries? the unidentified third male does not get groceries. he does not leave the compound; he does not present himself for photographs. when he needs fresh air, he paces around, beneath a grape arbor. but the leaves are so thick, they obscure our satellite views. this is a professional attempt to avoid detection. okay? real tradecraft. the only people we’ve seen behave in this way, are other top-level al-qaeda operatives. we did a red team on your analysis. according to them, this behavior could belong to someone other than al-qaeda. they did give a 40 percent chance that the unidentified third man… is a senior al-qaeda operative. but they also said there’s a 35 percent chance he’s a saudi drug dealer. 15 percent chance he’s a kuwaiti arms smuggler. 10 percent chance he’s one of the relatives of the brothers. basically, we agree with you. the house screams security. it screams someone who wants privacy; it even screams bad guy. — but it does not scream bin laden. — you get the point? if you can’t prove it’s bin laden, at least prove it’s not someone else. like a drug dealer. you know we lost the ability to prove them when we lost the detainee program. who the hell am i supposed to ask? huh? some guy in gitmo who’s all lawyered up? he’ll just tell his lawyer to warn bin laden. you’ll think of something. he’d be the first successful drug dealer never to have dealt drugs. he has no internet access to the house; he makes no phone calls either in or out who’s he selling to? who’s he buying from? how’s he making his money? and if you were to say, “he’s retired,” i’d say, “where’s the swimming pool?” where’s the gold cage with the falcons? and why does he send his courier to the two cities in pakistan, we most associate with al-qaeda, that have nothing particularly to do with heroin production. the president is a thoughtful, analytical guy. he needs proof. go ahead, you guys. i gotta say, your job… — hmm. — huh. i just don’t get the rhythms of politics. oh, you think this is political? if this was political, we’d be having this conversation in october, when there’s an election bump. this is pure risk, based on deductive reasoning, inference, supposition, and the only human reporting you have is six years old, from detainees, who were questioned under duress. the political move here is to tell you to go fuck yourself, and remind you, that i was in the room, when your old boss pitched wmd iraq. at least, there, you guys brought photographs. you know, you’re right, i agree with everything you just said. what i meant was, a man in your position… how do you evaluate the risk of not doing something? hmm? the risk of potentially letting bin laden slip through your fingers. that is a fascinating question. hey. i’m not saying we’re gonna do it, but the president wants to know, if we were gonna act, how would we do it? give us options. technically, these don’t exist. i actually tried to kill this program a couple of times. they’ve gone through, uh, an initial round of testing, and they have excellent radar defeat. we just haven’t tested with people in them yet. you’ll notice these stealth panels, similar to what we use on the b-2. the rotors have been muffled with decibel killers. it’s slower than a black hawk, lacks the offense and the stability. but, it can hide. so, uh, e—excuse me, but what do we—what do we need this for in—in libya. i mean, gaddafi’s anti-air is virtually non-existent. maya, do you wanna brief ‘em? there are two narratives, about the location of osama bin laden. the one that you’re most familiar with, is that ubl is hiding in a cave in the tribal areas. that he’s surrounded by a large contingent of loyal fighters. but that narrative is pre-9/11 understanding of ubl. the second narrative, is that he’s living in a city. living in a city with multiple points of egress and entry, access to communications, so that he can keep in touch with the organization. you can’t run a global network of interconnected cells from a cave. we’ve located an individual, we believe, based on detainee reporting, is bin laden’s courier. he’s living in a house, in abbottabad, pakistan. and we assess, that one of the other occupants of the house, is ubl. general. excuse me. uh, so, ubl, you got—you got an intel source on the ground? — no. — no? okay, so how do you know it’s bin laden? ’cause the truth is, we’ve been on this op before. it was ‘07, and it wasn’t bin laden, and we lost a couple of guys. totally understand. bin laden uses a courier, to interact with the outside world. by locating the courier, we’ve located bin laden. that’s really the intel. that’s it? quite frankly, i didn’t even wanna use you guys. with your dip and your velcro and all your gear bullshit. i wanted to drop a bomb. but people didn’t believe in this lead enough to drop a bomb. so, they’re using you guys, as canaries, in a theory that if bin laden isn’t there, you can sneak away, — and no one will be the wiser. — hmm. but bin laden, is there. and you’re gonna kill him for me. they’re nervous downtown. i don’t think we’ll get an approval. this decision is not going— it’s her against the world. oh, yeah. i’m about to go look the president in the eye. and what i’d like to know, no fucking bullshit, is where everyone stands on this thing. now, very simply, is he there, or is he not fucking there? we all come at this, through the filter of our own past experiences. now i remember iraq wmd, very clearly. i fronted that. and i can tell you the case for that, was much stronger than this case. a fucking “yes” or a “no”. we don’t deal in certainty, we deal in probability. and i’d say there’s a 60 percent probability he’s there. i concur, 60 percent. i’m at 80 percent, their opsec is what convinces me. — you guys ever agree on anything? — well, i agree with mike. we’re basing this mostly on detainee reporting, and i spent a bunch of time in those rooms. i’d say it’s a soft 60, sir. i’m virtually certain there’s some high value target there, i’m just not sure it’s bin laden. well, this is a little bit of a cluster fuck, isn’t it? i’d like to know what maya thinks. we’re all incorporating her assessment into ours. a hundred percent he’s there. okay, fine, 95 percent ‘cause i know certainty freaks you guys out, but it’s a hundred. they’re all cowed. — what do you think of the girl? — i think she’s fucking smart. we’re all smart, jeremy. may i join you? how is the food down here anyway? uh, it’s okay. — how long have you worked for the cia? — twelve years. — i was recruited out of high school. — and do you know why we did that? i don’t think i can answer that question, sir. i don’t think i’m allowed to… answer. all right. what else have you done for us? besides bin laden? nothing. i’ve done nothing else. well, you certainly have a flair for it. no? yeah. all right, let’s be serious now. yeah don’t fuck around on this one, dude. you’re just fuckin’ around, ’cause you see i’m up by two games. how many you got? patrick, be honest with me. you really believe this story? i mean, no offense, no offense, i know, but, osama bin laden? — yeah. — what part convinced you? her confidence. that’s the kinda concrete data point i’m looking for. i tell you, buddy. her confidence is the one thing that’s keeping me from getting ass-raped in some pakistani prison. i’m gonna be honest with you, bro. i’m cool with it. yeah. maya, i wanted you to hear it first. you know that thing we talked about? it’s gonna happen. — when? — tonight. good luck. — fifty bucks? — fifty bucks. fifty bucks. fifty bucks. it’s a lucky shot. — fuck. — go. copy. copy that. thirty seconds to first turn. hey, justin, what’re you listening to? — tony robbins. — tony robbins, really? you should listen to it. i got plans for after this. big time. i wanna talk to all of you about it. who here’s been in a helo crash before? ok, then we’re all good. we’ve just crossed the border, now entering pakistan. pakistani comms, no chatter. three minutes, stand by for doors open. two minutes. should be coming up just off our nose, eleven o’clock. eyes on target. stay tight. three seconds. hey! slide right! slide right! too much updraft! now, hurry up! we’ve lost power. go to lock-out. hey! hard landing! prince five–one is down. black hawk down in the animal pen. this way! this mission is still a “go”, i repeat, we are a “go”. alpha team is in the animal pen, making entry for ac1. no ropes, wheels down. prayer room’s clear. breacher! echo team is away, prince five–two exiting alpha–oscar. three… two… one… execute! ibrahim! c’mon out! “erfa edak!” (hands up!) get down! — down, down, down, down… — “yalla! yalla!” come on! throw your hands in the air! — “yalla! yalla!” — down! down! down! down! down! you’ve killed him! — let’s go. — i got her. “taht, taht, taht…” (under) hey. “yalla! yalla! ijlisoo! ijlisoo!” (go sit!) — “ma’laysh, ma’laysh.” (don’t worry) — down! sit down! — echo eleven on perimeter. — ready to breach at p2. fire in the hole. failed breach, failed breach. back it up. back it up… main gate. we got an unlocked door. abrar! abrar… abrar! it’s okay. this is echo eleven. we’re gonna breach the main gate. negative, this is echo zero–one, i’m… internal on the corridor. i’ll let you guys in. roger that. shut that fucking kid up, please. talk to me. no fucking way we can blow this thing. god–fucking–damnit, can you pop it manually? no. alpha–three… this is echo eleven, we’re at primary set-point, prepping to breach. wait one, we’re internal on the south side. this is a negative breach. roger, ready to make our entry out here. yeah, roger that, we’re coming to meet you. stay with these kids, and don’t let them in that backroom. — good? — yeah, bud. yeah. i forgot, were we supposed to crash that helo? ibrahim tried to shoot through the door. — oh, yeah? — i popped him from outside. oh, i fucking smoked abrar… and his wife. she still alive? — she’s gonna bleed out. — what a fucking mess. yeah. go, go, go! this is echo zero–nine, we have unknowns gathering in the southwest rooftops. locked gate blocking the stairs. breacher up. back it up, back up. hey, back it up. watch out. execute. go, go! this is echo zero–five moving to level 2. hakim, get those guys back. khalid… khalid… echo zero–two, moving to deck 3. clear! yalla! yalla! hakim, get him back, or i’ll start smokin’ ‘em. wait, wait, wait. go back! they will kill you! they will kill you! go back! no vest. all clear. whoa, fucking shit. usamah… usamah… usamah… down. got a possible jackpot. — roger that, possible jackpot. — shit. it’s okay. it’s okay. get down. ladi! — dude. — it’s okay. do you even realize what you just did? hey! — huh? — noori hasan. — yo, she says it’s not him. — talk to the kid. ladi! ladi… ladi! name… name… ladi… — we’re meeting down. — a’ight. ladi! ladi! ladi! hey, come on. come on. this is red zero–two. geronimo. for god and country. geronimo. all stations, target secure, target secure. roger, copy that, target secure. target secure. commence sse. prep for sse right now. books, dvds, cds… every fucking hard drive! do not leave a hard drive! hey, open that for me. let’s go, guys. hey, what’s up? i shot the third floor guy. why’ncha get to work? grab a bag. q–rod is inbound, eight miles out. pak air force is responding. fourteen minutes to intercept. any station, this is red zero–two, we need a body bag. this is echo zero–nine, stand by. hakim, i got this. get it to him. let’s go, buddy. echo zero–five, this is red zero–two. how long do you need for sse? we’re gonna need at least ten minutes, sir. echo zero–five, you have four mikes. this is a gold mine, i need more time than that. echo zero–five, if you’re not at the lz at 4 mikes, i’m gonna leave your ass behind. the paks have scrambled the f–16s. four minutes! red five–two, inbound for lz. where do you need the bag? third deck. here! hey. get it up. all right, let’s move it out. let’s go! now! you’ve got one mike to blow that downed helo. — you all right? — yeah. kilo–red forty-six inbound for lz in thirty seconds, out. chopper four–six, we were demoing five–one. chopper four–six, wave off. four–six, wave off, wave off! up! whoo-oo-oo! — well done, patrick. — thank you. moving through! all right, listen up, gentlemen. read the signs. 1st floor! hard drives, files, anything! 2nd floor! opposite, down on the right! 3rd floor, ladies’ underwear. we’re on strike, they can’t be — that many of ‘em, right? — collect all media! — cds, dvds? — who’s got a sharpie? — right here. — good job, man. nice job. where the hard drives go? — guys, marker on tables! — yes, sir. we got ziploc bags and sharpies, use them. come on, mark all media! — gentlemen, watch your backs. — slow down. thank you, sir. good job. — slow down. — video cameras? video cameras, where—where was it found? yes, sir. one moment, please. one moment, please. sir, the agency expert gave visual confirmation. yes, sir, the girl. hundred percent. thank you, sir. — are you maya? — yeah. that’s the only name they gave me. you can sit wherever you want, you’re the only one on the manifest. you must be pretty important. you got the whole plane to yourself. where do you wanna go?