provided by explosiveskull https://twitter.com/kaboomskull ♪ went to sleep last night ♪ ♪ i had a kind of dream for sure ♪ ♪ when i woke up in the morning ♪ ♪ felt like i was coming down to joy ♪ ♪ what did i see, what did i hear ♪ ♪ when i was coming down? ♪ ♪ had a brand-new story ♪ ♪ when i was coming down to joy ♪ ♪ felt so good ♪ ♪ gratitude ♪ ♪ when i was coming down ♪ ♪ something quite ♪ ♪ quite profound ♪ ♪ that i cried out loud ♪ ♪ i got a brand-new story ♪ ♪ brand-new story ♪ ♪ i was coming down to joy ♪ ♪ she was standing there before me ♪ ♪ there before me ♪ ♪ when i was coming down, down, down, down ♪ ♪ felt so good... ♪ - hello, there. - how are you, frankie? very well. - buddy! - you all right, paddy? - buddy! - you can't catch me! yeah, i'm gonna catch you! just wait. all right? - buddy! - buddy! buddy! - i'm speedy. you're not. - i'm gonna get you. hiya, moira. how are you? very good, thank you. how are you? - i'm good. - ah, and he's dribbling, he's dribbling. - score now! - buddy! - cheat! - no, no cheating. i did it fair and square. i'm telling you. you nearly got me. yes! i did, too! hey, buddy! i win! i slayed the dragon! your ma's calling you! your tea's ready! all the rest of you, too! - yes! - i'll get you next time, buddy. yes! ♪ coming down to joy. ♪ you dirty bastard! - hiya, buddy. - hello, mrs. ford. have you been fighting any dragons? - only a couple. - i've got a couple in my house. - is that right, mr. west? - aye. and can you lend us a shield, buddy? i'll see what i can do. - say hello to your daddy for me, will you? - will do. buddy, your ma's calling you for your tea. thanks, mrs. kavanagh. she says it's tripe and onions. - she did not. - in a sandwich. she did not. she says you're a terrible man. she's right. what's going on down there? please, please, we've done nothing. get the kids inside! get away from here! go! we don't want any trouble! come on! get inside! mum! buddy! ma! buddy! mum! mum! mum! keep your head down and don't move! will! - mum! - will! danny, where are you?! say nothing to nobody. - catholics out! - easy, lads. get them upstairs! catholics out! get in the house! mummy! mummy! what's happening?! keep him there and stay still. mum, what are you doing? will, stay where you are. mum! you've been warned! get these fuckers out of your street! and if you talk to the police, we'll be back for you, too! get the catholics out! get down! get yourselves down! stand back! holy god. belfast was in shock this morning as the impact of last night's rioting was all too clear. small numbers of catholics still peacefully living in protestant areas were targeted. their houses were attacked and marked, and intimidation may force them to leave their homes completely. can these tightly-knit neighborhoods ever return to the peace they shared together only 24 hours ago? further reports suggest... up front, frank. i'll show you where i put them. look, we need to get this barricade up before those kids come back, okay? are we taking all these paving stones to the barricade? - we taking them all down? - we need them all. is poor jane okay? is she all right? don't you worry, paddy. we're not gonna let them back here again. you're as welcome on this street as any of us. all right, buddy? we're gonna have to go down the yard and get more. we've got four more houses to do, and that's the last pane of glass. apparently, fergus didn't come home last night. i'm gonna go see mrs. mcguinness now. it's all right. i saw fergus down the road. - he's coming now. - we have to do this. the police aren't going to protect us, so we have to do it ourselves. is that all you can take in a barrow? kids, please, go inside. i don't want you out here until it's all safe again. - come on. - come on, load them up here. would you look at the poor children with that load. can you wheel that up to the front? frankie will show you where we're putting it. tell paddy i'll be there in a minute to fix that. i've just got to nip into the house and get my tools. watch yourself getting up there, love. put that pallet over here. over here. get them kids to stay away from them sharp edges. pull them rocks up. everything. put that washing machine in. come on, let's get this all done. the likeliest move is to bring troops into belfast in the hope of avoiding further clashes between rioters and police, particularly the b-specials. - stand to the side! - another 600 troops will be available this afternoon. off these streets now! get off the road! stand back! we're not stupid! you can't keep us in our houses! the men of the 3rd battalion of the light infantry fly in from plymouth to plug the gap left by the use of troops. a curfew is another possibility which is being widely mentioned. i've just come from the airport now. i've literally just come from the airport. i live in that street. that's my kids there. i live in number 96. get up there quick. quick. christ. - stop! - just let him through... where do you think you're going, love? to bring my husband home. that's him on the other side there. where's he been, then? none of your bloody business. not with you in your hour of need? - that's a bit off, isn't it? - he works away in england. does he? what kind of work is that? - he's a joiner. - i see. and has he joined any of these groups making all this mess in your street? he knew nothing about the whole bloody thing. that's why he's here now. he's come home from his work to see his family. glad to hear it, madam. - hi. - hi. they nearly had you there, steve mcqueen. i'll have you in a second, frankie. - come on, you two. - hi, boys. stay in your homes tonight. - thank you very much. - okay? aye. space, the final frontier. these are the voyages of - the starship enterprise... - did they attack you? no. it was only the catholic houses. them boyos want them out. them peoples don't give you any bother in that street, - do they? - not at all. sure, they're friends, they're family, same as us. they just kick with the left foot. exactly. sure, my best friend in the street is mrs. ganjawala. she's indian. she even comes to the wee mission with me. well, them curries, i tried one once. i had to wear a nappy for a week. - will. - oh, mum. sorry, granny. ah, she's well able to handle herself. it's being so cheerful keeps you going, isn't it? sure, i'm not gonna be running up the cave hill any time soon, am i? - it's just not knowing. - that's not easy. how it's gonna affect their schooling. will, would you turn that telly off - and talk to your granny? - hi, pop. hiya, buddy. does the doctor want to see you again? he's given me a letter for the hospital. - and did you go? - there's no point. i think you've a few big decisions to make, son. did you clear up that wee bit of trouble - we were talking about? - hey, wee fellas. we're not deaf back here. oh, yes, we've friends on the protestant side. they weren't friends last night. they weren't friends last night, though. paddy kavanagh told me as long as catholics keep confessing everything bad that they do to a priest, then they can do whatever they want and god will forgive them all the time. well, paddy kavanagh's family's not gonna be living in this street for much longer, so you'd better check he's not taking the hand out of you. ugh, i don't know how it works. they get a lot of water thrown on them and then they're okay. i think that's it. why aren't you going, too? 'cause me and your father have business to discuss. god understands. come on. - what are those? - my little secret. now, come on. i've had too much god for one day. well, your granny says you can never have too much god. you might need him before too long. look, mind your nonsense for now, and i'll take youse all to the pictures tomorrow. brilliant! robin and the 7 hoods is on in the afternoon at the capitol. - paddy saw it. - wait, is that gangsters? - it's a blinking musical. - no, it's not. there's little john and swords and everything. well, you can't go tomorrow afternoon. your cousins will be here. your aunties and uncles want to say goodbye to your father before he goes back. but, daddy, are you not gonna be a vigilante on our barricade? no more talk about bloody barricades. that whole nonsense will stop soon enough. i wouldn't be too sure about that. hey, less of the long face, son. these two can go and pray for it to stop now, and we'll all go to the big picture house in town tomorrow, daddy will pick the film, and we'll forget about this whole bunch of eejits before i have to go back to work. was that our side that done all that to them catholic houses in our street, daddy? there is no our side and their side in our street. or there didn't used to be, anyway. it's all bloody religion. that's the problem. then why are you sending us to church? because your granny'd kill me if i didn't. but, daddy, if we were catholics, we could not go to church, and then every once in a wee while, we could go in and confess, and then they'd have to tell us we were forgiven and we wouldn't have to go in again for ages. i've nothing against catholics. but it's a religion of fear. protestants, you will die! agonizingly! and where will you go when you shuffle off this pestilential mortal coil? where?! well, i will tell you where. picture the scene. a fork in the road. in one direction, a straight and narrow highway. in the other, a long and winding road which stretches down and away into an unknowable distance. one will take you to the bosom of the lord's grace, forever and a day caress you with beatific love. and the other will spew you into an eternal pit of sulfurous suffering, pustulating pain, from which you will never, ever, through the seven circles of hell escape! and i ask you here and now... ...which road will you take?! now, money. thanks very much. really good. remember, one slice per sandwich. i don't want to be giving too much away. with regard to the explosive... i think that's a fair word... situation in northern ireland, are we getting near to the point where you, as prime minister of the united kingdom government, will feel it necessary to intervene and use the supreme authority which is yours in law either to remedy grievances or to ensure order? is it almost ready? if that became necessary, of course, i shouldn't shrink from doing whatever was needed. uh, we have been deeply concerned about the problem of civil rights in northern ireland. i've paid tribute... make an orderly queue to be allowed entrance to the street, please. all right, what have we got left now? not doing a strip search this time, eh, frankie? whose do you belong to? you know full bloody well who we belong to. i'm taking my wife down to her sister's, like i've been doing all my bloody life. - house number? - there's no number. just a name. - what's the name? - arsehole. very funny, mack. always the joker, eh? on you go. we won't worry about their name and number now. we know where they live. whoo. you like that? how's that, then, ginger rogers, huh? whoo. come on you, fred astaire. - you can tell them by their names. - how? well, if he's a patrick or a sean, he's a catholic, and if he's a billy or a william, he's a protestant. there's more names than that, though. i know that. i'm just saying, them's the obvious ones. what about morris? uh, don't know. we've a wee fella down our street called thomas. - what's he? - protestant definitely. he's not. he's a catholic. - no, he's not. - he is. sure, they burnt his house out the other night 'cause his family is catholic. sure, we've a cousin called thomas. i know. that's what i'm saying. well, how the hell are you supposed to know, then? you have to get taught it. who teaches you? so the doctor says, "listen, john, i've got some bad news and worse." and john says, "oh, no. wh-what's the bad news?" and he goes, "well, you've only got 24 hours to live." john says, "that's-that's awful. what could be worse than that?" doctor says, "well, i've been trying to get ahold of you since yesterday." - why do you even have to know? - in case they attack you. - when? - when you're out and about. well, if they're attacking you, they're not gonna stop and tell you their name. it wouldn't get to that stage. - why? - 'cause you use your secret knowledge to bluff them. what are you talking about? they can just come up to you when you're not expecting it and ask you, "are you protestant or catholic?" but it's a trick question, you see, 'cause they don't tell you what they are. and what do you say then to not get a dig in the gob? - "i'm a catholic"? - wrong. that's exactly what they think you will say. they think you're trying to bluff them. but you have to double-bluff them. - how? - you say, "i'm a protestant." - but i am a protestant. - that's the point! blanchflower's now at the halfway line. he looks up. is there nothing this spurs right-half cannot do? perfect through ball! nice pass, son. would you go on away in and tell your pa i'd like to have a wee chat with him, please? tell him it's billy clanton. and mclaury. what do you want? we're looking to cleanse the community a wee bit. you wouldn't want to be the odd man out in this street. you saw what happened to your neighbors from the other side. you touch my family and i'll kill you. calm down, fella. i'm a protestant, like yourself. - all all right? - aye, it's okay, mackie. look, things get out of hand pretty quick round these parts. cash or commitment. the boys who cleaned up your street have made me their new local chief. so, you can report to me with either. all right? have a wee think. i'll be in touch. buddy, come on. come and show me how to play this game. come on. let's have a look. huh? see you, now. all the big boys have left. buddy, give your brother a hand there, will you? pick this sofa up, right? here, can you give us a hand? yes, ma'am. you want to set your gun down? no, it's all right, thank you. now, don't you be scratching my walls with that. you got it? right now, hold on. this worked earlier. i'll go in first. - all right? - stewart. - frankie. - all right? all right, frankie? is that you all this time at the barricades? somebody has to. better me than billy clanton. aye. not many people chose this. there's a few men hiding behind them barricades. and they'll keep hiding where they're afraid for their families. it's a waiting game now. when it's time for that wall to come down, i'll be the first to swing a hammer, but now? "they also serve who stand and wait." we can't all be acting the lone ranger. this is a story of long, long ago, when the world was just beginning. a young world. a world early in the morning of time. no wonder you brought us to this. it's educational for the boys. aye. raquel welch is a hell of an education. if people ask you to join anything, deliver anything, do messages for anybody, you do nothing, okay? you tell your ma, she'll tell me, and i'll sort it. - you understand me? - yes, daddy. very good. i'm proud of you, son. now get off to bed, the pair of you. i'm up too early in the morning to see you, so make sure you get to school all right, all right? don't mess your mother about, and i'll see you in two weeks. - okay? - yes, daddy. good boys. a fork in the road. in one direction, a straight and narrow highway. which road will you take?! you're running round here like the man in the big picture, not paying your taxes and spending all our money on horses. it's the building trade. i told you it doesn't work the normal way. i told you i had it covered. i was the one who had it covered. no, you had us paying three years of back tax. to keep you out of bloody jail. we're drowning in debt. we're near done with the back tax. ten pound a month for three bloody years. this is the time to think about making a new start. i know nothing else but belfast. exactly. there's a whole world out there. we can give these boys a better chance than we ever had. there's commonwealth countries needing tradesmen. the government will give you assisted passage. we can get the whole family to the other side of the world for ten pound. we're living in a civil war, and i'm not here to protect my family. what are those supposed to be? an escape route. get this street locked down. come on, get a move on. we're gonna be late again. come on! throughout the night, sniping became the tactic of the rioters. as we drove past a side street, three men on the corner dived for cover. - it's not bad, though, is it? - a young man with a revolver asked us for a lift. at 4:00 this morning, ruc turned us back - from the falls area. - yeah. snipers, they said, were still at work, and in the distance, one heard the ominous burst of machine-gun fire. the scene terrified me, but it reminded an american colleague of harlem, but, he added, it seems easier to get guns here. one more left. dawn over belfast today showed a grim scene, buildings scarred by fire, thousands of pounds' worth of damage caused, and, of course, the tragic loss of life. it's been a night of shame for belfast, one that will live on in the memories of its people... come on, you two. school. walking, please. no running. morning, miss. twelve elevens are 132. twelve twelves are 144. well, i'm pleased to say your times tables were a lot more impressive to hear than your test scores were to read. the whole point of these weekly tests is to monitor your progress. the best will sit directly by my desk, the seat of learning, and the rest of you will view your sisyphean struggles from the distance you have imposed upon yourself by a lack of application. billy clanton junior, 17%. bottom row, seat 12. rachel, seat 11. martin to seat ten. freddie, seat eight. karen to seat four. and in the medal positions this week, with 72%, in bronze, is buddy, seat three. and, of course, in silver again, we have ron, and catherine with the gold yet again this week. congratulations, catherine. very well done. the wee girl still showing some interest, yeah? she looks at me sometimes, but we're not allowed to talk in the class, so i can't say anything. and then when we go out to the playground, she always goes off with the other girls. anyways, i think she loves that other fella. ah, you don't know that for sure. women are very mysterious. and women can smash your face in, too, mister. your granny's become less mysterious over the years. so, you really like her? when i grow up, i want to marry her. yeah, sounds like you really like her. you know, she's not only at school. you could see where she lives maybe. it's reynolds drive, four houses in from the right, the one with the wonky eight. oh, you've done your research. i pass it every day on my way home. i try to look in, but she never sees me. she's always doing her bloody homework. if she were a wee bit more stupid like me, we'd be sitting together by now. ah, "a pity beyond all telling is hid in the heart of love." oh, he's full of pretty answers, that one. come on, it's time to go. i don't want your mommy shouting at me because you're late. - cheerio, son. - cheerio. here, take this threepenny bit. get yourself a wee sweetie. i'm not allowed, granny. my da says you can't afford it. i'm always saying to your man there what's yours is mine and what's mine's me own. thanks, granny. try and find out how that wee girl thinks. oh, good luck with that one, son. ♪ from the dark end of the street ♪ ♪ to the bright side of the road ♪ ♪ we'll be lovers once again ♪ ♪ on the bright side of the road ♪ ♪ little darlin', come with me ♪ - pass it. pass it. - no. goal! ♪ won't you help me share my load? ♪ yes, mate, over here. you just need to tell us where you been, all right? ♪ from the dark end of the street ♪ - whoa, whoa, whoa. - yeah, up against the wall. ♪ to the bright side of the road ♪ ♪ cricket. ♪ will. will. what road do we take? i can't remember. what road did the minister say? oh, shut up. and in this already tense atmosphere, concerns remain about intimidation run rife in working-class areas. further reports suggest... - ...arse up here. come on. - daddy! stop dragging your arse along there. come on. you're hurting my arm. right, stop being a crybaby now. you show me where he lives. come on. daddy, i'm sorry. can you tell me exactly what he said? he just said he couldn't give any more money to the streets. - he'll not say that to my son. - daddy, stop! - stewart! stewart! - please! hey, your blood's up there, billy. would you go back to your house? right, billy, we've no call for fists here. aye? well, what is it the man says? a fist is only as good or bad as the man using it. remember that. holy god. billy! shut up, frankie! come on, billy. that's too much now. - come on, you! - we don't need more of this, billy. ah, billy, stop that. you're settling old scores. regards to your pa. tell him i expect to hear from him soon. or he'll be hearing from me. up them stairs. ♪ you don't have to buy me flowers ♪ ♪ or pretty ribbons for my hair... ♪ what are you doing? it's, like, what my favorite holiday is. - what is your favorite holiday? - i don't know. we haven't been on many, have we? no, we haven't. ♪ real love ♪ ♪ oh, let it be real love... ♪ unbelievable. they're not getting away with this. and it's due today, as well, so i can't do anything about it. - ah, hello, buddy. - hello, mr. west. - right, on you go, now. - thanks, mr. west. will you ask your da to drop down to see us - when he's back at the weekend? - he's not back at the weekend. that's a pity. - tell your ma i was asking after him, will you? - aye. tell your brother i need another wee delivery with the milk. get him to come and see me after school. all right? why is your da not coming home? he can't come home every weekend. it's too dear. you won't get your wee matchbox car, then, will you? come on. coming. - do you want to join a gang? - i'm not allowed. - why not? - my mother said she'd kill me. sure she doesn't have to know. that's the whole point. - are you in one? - aye. - what's it called? - doesn't have a name. - why not? - has to be secret. that's what they tell you when you join. what do you do? i can't tell you till you're in the gang. - how many of you are there? - not allowed to say. what do you have to do to join, then? whatever they tell you. if your da's not home this weekend, you could come with us. i don't know. i'm trying to practice my maths. then you're mental. come on. if your da's not home anyway, what else are you gonna do? ♪ look at the ivy on the old clinging wall ♪ ♪ look at the flowers ♪ ♪ and the green grass so tall ♪ ♪ it's not a matter of ♪ ♪ when push comes to shove ♪ ♪ it's just the hour on the wings of a dove ♪ ♪ that's just warm love ♪ ♪ it's just warm love ♪ ♪ and it's ever present everywhere ♪ ♪ and it's ever present everywhere ♪ ♪ warm love ♪ ♪ and it's ever present everywhere ♪ ♪ and it's ever present everywhere ♪ ♪ that warm love. ♪ god. this takes ages. no wonder they call it long division. patience. patience with the sums. patience with the girl. is it 27? that's close enough. and now just make sure y-your numbers aren't very clear to read. she might give you the benefit of the doubt if your seven looks like a one with a fancy tail, right? the same with a two and a six. right? keep her guessing. that means you'll have two or three horses in every race. isn't that cheating? no, well, i'd call it spread betting. and if it gets you moved up by one seat to bask in the light of her glory, then you're off to the races. but sure there's only one right answer. if that were true, son, people wouldn't be blowing themselves up all over this town. i think my da wants us to leave belfast. what do you want? every night, before i go to sleep, when i say my prayers, i ask god if he'd fix it so that when i wake up in the morning, i'm the best footballer in the world. and then i also ask him as well that when i grow up, can i marry catherine. even if she loves ronnie boyd. but she could still see him, but she'd marry me. that's what i want. you looking for trouble, doniphon? you aim to help me find some? what's the matter? everybody in this country kill crazy?! here! show's over for now. try it, liberty. just try it. what right do you have to interfere? it was me he tripped. i have to keep those boys where i can see 'em. well, i can't come home every weekend, for god's sake. well, if you can't be bothered, well, then don't blame me - for what them boys get up to. - that's not what i'm saying. you can't just throw that one... right, that's 6:00 a.m., fellas. that's youse done. housewives, it's thanks to sparkle biological washing powder that their whites are whiter than ever. they've discovered for themselves... what have i done? all right, mummy? why do you always get sad when a letter comes? remember, our washing powder is biological. come on, mr. slowpoke. get inside now. and finally a switch in the medal positions this week. well, mr. buddy, you may not have improved your handwriting in maths, for which this once, in lieu of your intensified efforts, we will be willing to give you the benefit of the doubt, but you have improved your score. so, in second position is buddy. ♪ da-da-da-da-da-da, da-da-da-da-da ♪ ♪ da-da-da-da-da-da ♪ ♪ da-da-da-da-da ♪ ♪ jackie wilson said it was reet petite ♪ ♪ kinda love you got knock me off my feet ♪ ♪ let it all hang out ♪ ♪ oh, let it all hang out ♪ ♪ and you know i'm so wired up ♪ ♪ don't need no coffee in my cup ♪ ♪ let it all hang out ♪ ♪ let it all hang out ♪ ♪ watch this. ♪ be careful what you wish for. that's what the minister at the wee mission says. when is your next chance? we have to do a project about the moon landing. what, did those boys not come back from that? they did, and now we have to cut things out of the papers and explain how they got there. if they did get there, if they did get to the moon. it's not what it says here. god doesn't like it. and i watched every night, too, that they were up there, and how did i never see mike collins in the mother ship doing his orbit? sure you would have seen the shape of columbus against the light of the moon. no, that's 'cause mostly he was on the dark side. exactly. it's the side that lucifer hangs his shillelagh. what? no, look, he was on the dark side of the moon most of the time where we couldn't see him, you know, while he was doing his orbit, and then maybe, you know, just before he was due to come round the corner, you had to go in for your tea. if i could come up with something smart about that, maybe i could stay up at the top desk and wait till she gets back there. or you could say the moon's made of green cheese and drop down a place, if you wanted. or you could do the project together, you and the young lady. you'd get the same marks and maybe end up on the same seat together. but how do i even talk to her? - ♪ how do you handle a woman? ♪ - ugh. ♪ "there's a way," said the wise old man ♪ ♪ a way known by every woman ♪ ♪ since the whole rigmarole began ♪ yeah, it's all rigmarole with you, mister. ♪ do i flatter her ♪ ♪ threaten or cajole or plead? ♪ ♪ do i brood or play the gay romancer? ♪ ♪ said he, smiling ♪ ♪ how to handle a woman? ♪ ♪ mark me well, i will tell you, sir ♪ ♪ the way to handle a woman ♪ ♪ is to love her ♪ ♪ simply love her ♪ get off me. ♪ merely love her. ♪ walk, please. no running, thank you. thanks. well done on your maths. thanks. have you gone to the moon yet? do you want to, with me? it'll save you getting cold waiting outside our house. hey, romeo, come on! we have work to do. operation steal the chocolate. it's simple. we go into the shop and keep mr. singh talking down by the fridge. he has to move the boxes round at the bottom to get me a lemon mivvi. his head'll be down part of the time. you stay at the front of the shop, and when you see he's not looking, you make a sweep. - what's a sweep? - a big grab for all the chocolate bars on that low shelf near the till. sure he'll know they've been nicked if there's a big gap. i thought you said we'd just do a couple, so he'd never even notice. i don't want lifted by the police. all right, all right. - all clear. - no sweep. just a small grab, okay? i might be able to swipe you a chocolate mousse - at the same time. - okay. - hello, mr. singh. - hello, moira. hello, buddy. - hello, mr. singh. - good to see youse. please may i have a lemon mivvi? lemon mivvi coming right up. just need to move a few wee boxes. hey! - he's seen us! - come here, you wee buggers! - i know who you are! - no, he doesn't! well, your woman will tell him anyway! - you proud of yourself? - it was moira. get in there. get off that blinking road or you'll kill somebody! she's gonna tell on us! she says anything, she's done for! i know who youse are! what have you got? you're joking me. it's all i could see. turkish delight? who the hell eats turkish delight? - do you eat turkish delight? - no. i don't like it. nobody likes it. - it's all they had. - are you blind? i had to think quickly. not quickly enough. there was flakes and crunchies. all you need is an in and out with a fast hand, and then the milky bars are on me. i'm not sure you're cut out for this. hey, buddy, your da's home. - sure it's only wednesday. - he came in a taxi. - and you, too! - what? keep your mouth shut. when did you write to them? none of your business. just tell me. when did you write to them? - it's a simple question. - none of your business. just give me a simple answer. - i'm not getting interrogated. - when did you write to them? when the last receipt came through. i knew it was the last one 'cause for three bloody years i've been counting them envelopes coming through that door, and there wasn't so much as a thank-you with this one. it's the taxman, for god's sake. who do you expect, father christmas? we've been scrimping and saving, and they hadn't the good grace as to say, "that's it. you're done. you're in the clear." so what'd you say to them in your letter? i said i wanted a full official declaration that my husband was in the clear a hundred percent on all back taxes, and that they acknowledged that everything was shipshape and above board, and that my family's good name wasn't on some credit risk list. - christ. christ the night. - what? no. - no. - yes, yes, oh, yes. they've decided... thanks to acting on your request... they've decided to go back further into my accounts and say that i owe another 572 pound, which based on current earnings, should take another five years to pay off. so it's a handy wee letter you sent, wasn't it? you bugger! oh, you're a lying bugger! aye, that's right, believe the taxman before you believe me! 'cause i know you! your work won't be too pleased with you skipping off in the week. i'll work the weekend. ah, when's that job finish? this one's nearly done. what, there's another one over there, is there? aye. big one. a long one. they're asking some of the boys to move over permanent. offering accommodation because of the time involved. couple of years. building a hospital. your father has to go to the hospital. you talk to him about it. won't talk to me about doctors. is that right? ah, it's just a couple of days. a wee test for the lungs. it's all that bloody time over in leicester. - where's that? - in england. is that near where daddy works? nah, your daddy works near, uh, london, the big smoke. this was in the countryside. what were you doing? i was a coal miner. you've done a lot of different jobs, pop. you can say that again. yeah, none of them lasted more than a week. my mother's worried about you. your mother's worried about you. well, granny's always worried about something, isn't she? ah, well, your granny's a very caring person. sometimes it affects her nerves. like your mommy. mommy's worried, too, isn't she? daddy, are we gonna have to leave belfast? all right, buddy, that's me away, then. i'll see you when i get back next week. in you come, girls. catherine. quinn. come on in, girls. you can help put the pencils out. be good, son. if you can't be good? be careful. seems like only yesterday you and me were in school together. you're gonna need to stay away from my family. that's big talk for a fella who's never here. you can rely on me to be here when it matters. i hope your timing's good. things get out of hand pretty quick round these parts. do you know the problem with men like you? you think you're better than the rest of us. and the problem with men like you is you know you're not. we'll keep it simple. you're with us or you're against us. clock's ticking. you're a soft touch! time for real protestants to step up! ach, you're no real protestant. you're a jumped-up gangster and always were. there's peelers about. hey, watch it, youse two. quick. ah, look. there you are now, son. there he is now. hello, son. the police officer here just wants a wee word with you. there seems to be a-a wee bit of confusion about something that happened at mr. singh's. go on, sit down there, now. do you know why i'm here, son? don't lie to me. a very serious crime has been committed down in mr. singh's shop. do you know what i'm talking about? all the best, now, and give my regards to josie. - i will do. - i do like a man in a uniform. was he in there long? apples'll grow again, should they grow on a gooseberry tree! i didn't even eat the chocolate! no, i won't be here when it's over. you're asking me to wait an hour to find out if i'm going to be a wife or a widow. i say it's too long to wait. - i won't do it. - amy... i mean it. if you won't go with me now, i'll be on that train when it leaves here. i've got to stay. no, you're not listening to me. i am listening. i am listening. would you, would you listen to me for a change? i'm trying to be practical about this. look, the police were here today but their father wasn't, so, no, i'll not be having any lectures - from you, mister. - don't be like that. i know what you're gonna... ♪ do not forsake me, oh, my darling ♪ ♪ on this our wedding day ♪ ♪ do not forsake me, oh, my darling ♪ ♪ wait ♪ ♪ wait along ♪ ♪ i do not know what fate awaits me ♪ ♪ i only know i must be brave ♪ ♪ and i must face a man who hates me ♪ clear the streets and return to your homes. ♪ or lie a coward ♪ ♪ a craven coward ♪ return to your homes. ♪ or lie a coward in my grave ♪ oi. yes, i'm open. - ♪ wait along ♪ - catch it. - mine, mine, mine! - pass it to me! ♪ wait along... ♪ mrs. ford, how you doing? all the better for seeing you, stranger. - welcome home. - ah, you're a silver-tongued charmer. - it takes one to know one. - all right? ah, just the fella. have you got a horse for the 2:30 race? i have, but if i tell you, the odds'll come down. christ, i'm not gonna bet the house. fancy man, each way. she'll get you a pint. - is that paddy moving out? - poor catholics have no choice. - it's a mad world. - well, get used to it. we all live there now. prize capture was a tanker laden with 2,500 gallons of petrol. they'd also taken dozens of crates of milk bottles from a passing truck and dubbed the whole enterprise the petrol bomb factory. sure all the kids in the street are going mad. what do you want me to do? you need to talk to them boys. how many was there? about ten of them. and what did your mate do? he said he wasn't joining anything they belonged to. then he gave the big one a dig in the gob and ran like hell. so did i. did they chase you? aye, but we got a street ahead of them. then we ran into me uncle tony's and turned the corner before they could see us. we put the heart across me uncle tony. he was on the toilet, doing his horses, and then he dropped his pencil down the loo. you've delivered for these boys before, aye? mm-hmm. and you know it's not milk they're putting back in them empty bottles? i do now, daddy. you were right to tell me. come here and hold this, son. hold that there. - you got that? - mm-hmm. and amid more citywide violence overnight, government figures issued today reveal that northern ireland now has the highest rate of unemployment in the uk. here it is. planet earth. and do you know where that is? - sydney. - australia? aye, that's right. - do you know about it? - aye. they've got surfing and weird football. and they have kangaroos on the barbecue. and the weather's good. young joe turner's down there, too. that's right. how do you fancy that? what? moving over there for a wee while. you're joking. no. it's just down the side a wee bit. it's ten and a half thousand miles. right, school, you two... now. we might as well be going to the moon if we went down there. sure, you've already family there. one second cousin. and you've the phone. and a millionaire to pay the bills? we could take trips back. and pay for it with what, scotch mist? family could come over for holidays. i didn't come up the loch in a bubble. there's no one from round here can afford the fare to go down there. or the time off work, if they had any work. you just heard the bloody news. we have to do something. this is our home. ♪ when it's not always raining ♪ ♪ there'll be days like this ♪ ♪ when there's no one complaining ♪ ♪ there'll be days like this ♪ ♪ everything falls into place ♪ ♪ like the flick of a switch ♪ ♪ well, my mama told me ♪ ♪ there'll be days like this ♪ i hope you're feeling confident, daddy. ♪ when you don't need to worry ♪ ♪ there'll be days like this ♪ don't worry. ♪ when on one's in a hurry ♪ ♪ there'll be days like this ♪ ♪ when you don't get betrayed... ♪ he's away the night again? aye, he can't neglect his work. sure, there's work here. have you read the papers? you'd break my heart to leave, but... - come on! - here! ...you have to think of them. we can't all leave. there'd be nobody left but the nutters. aye, and nobody to cook their tea, run messages and wipe their arses. that'd make the violence stop in about ten minutes. how could i leave belfast? i wouldn't worry about it. the irish were born for leaving. otherwise, the rest of the world would have no pubs. it just needs half of us to stay so that the other half can get sentimental about the ones that went. all the irish need to survive is a phone, a guinness and the sheet music to "danny boy." you're a terrible woman, you know that? he shoots, he scores. ♪ the summer's gone ♪ ♪ and all the flowers ♪ ♪ are dying ♪ i'll see you soon, okay? ♪ 'tis you, 'tis you ♪ - you take her home. - ♪ must go ♪ - enjoy yourself, okay? - ♪ and i must bide ♪ come on, now, missus. come along. we must go as well. come on, now. ♪ but come ye back... ♪ all right, i give in. ♪ when summer's in the... ♪ - violet, can i ask you a question? - what? - what did you do with the money? - what money? the money your ma gave you for singing lessons. all passengers departing on the heysham ferry should proceed to the boarding area now. everybody's leaving home. people have to move on. "too long a sacrifice can make a stone of the heart." oh, is that what does it? yeah, well, you don't usually buy your wisdom with a walk in the park. your heart has to explode. mr. philosopher. and when did your heart ever explode? that time i saw you in those brown stockings. holy god. - aye. - i remember that. it took me half the day just staining my legs brown with the tobacco water. then our annie took half the night to draw the seam up the back of my legs with a pencil. you couldn't understand why you couldn't get your hands round them. you thought it was magic. it was magic. when you've gray hair, people think your heart never skipped. did yours ever skip? aye, it danced a bloody jig every time you walked in the room. nah. you were full of it then, and you're full of it now. come on. we may get on. uh, jimmy said he'd drive me to the hospital in the morning. no, and i told him he would not. i'm taking you in on the bus. i'm walking you in, and when they're done, you can be bloody sure i'm walking you back out again. do you hear me? i'm walking you home. do you hear me? yeah, i hear you, missus. sure, when did i not? aldergrove bus going in three minutes. last tickets now. the boss has been in touch. they want me to stay on. a permanent job in england. wanting me to move into management. it's more money. just let us through there. there's a house that goes with it. we get it rent-free, with a chance to own it if things go well. a wee bit bigger than what we have here. a room for each of the boys. there's a wee garden, too. are you allowed to play football in that garden, daddy? aye, son. if i say yes, there's more money straightaway. we could start getting on top of that back tax now. this family's not gonna get another chance like that in this town, not now. hey, watch out for that traffic there. i'm watching it now, mammy. it's okay. come on, now. two minutes. get on board if you're coming. last tickets now. sounds like they really want you. what do you want? i want my family with me. i want you. you and me, we've known each other since we were toddlers. we've known this street and every street round it all our lives. and every man, woman and child that lives in every bloody house, whether we like it or not. i like it. and you say you've a wee garden for them boys? but here, they can play wherever the hell they like, 'cause everybody knows them, everybody likes them and everybody looks after them. if we go over the water, them people's not gonna understand a word we say. and half of them, they'll take the hand out of us for sounding different. and the other half, they'll hate us 'cause men here are killing their young sons on our streets. they'll think we don't give a shite. and you think they're gonna welcome us with open arms? what, and say, "come on in. well done for stealing the house off of us"? things change. aye. they do. we need to decide by christmas. you need to decide by christmas. you're coming back, aren't you, daddy? you look after your mummy. be good. if you can't be good... "and if you can't be good, be careful." right, off we go. aldergrove airport, ladies and gents. we'll talk on the phone, okay? give me a ring. tell me when you've got there. ♪ i'm stranded ♪ ♪ at the edge of the world ♪ ♪ it's a world i don't know ♪ ♪ got nowhere to go ♪ ♪ feels like i'm stranded ♪ i caught you looking at dr. kildare. right. you can talk. have you wrote to santa? oh, he has, but santa's explained that money's a bit tight this year, so he's not to expect too much. sure, santa has plenty of surplus if you talk to the people in the know. your health is all you need - for a christmas present. - ah. well, you've the right one to keep you cheerful here, haven't you, pop? you tell your mammy to stop her cheek, or i'm not taking you to the show. what show's that? i don't know. i think there's christmas carols in it, though. oh, that's me waterworks. and you, behave yourself. don't be annoying your pop. don't be asking for any christmas presents. he's no money, either. taxman's got it, like ours. ach, don't worry. your mammy will persuade santa to bring some presents. ach. don't think so, pop. i always know when there's no money. hello? - it's the rent man. - i'll get it, mam. shut your mouth. is your mum in there, wee man? nobody's here. oh, that puts me in mind of a great wee system we had in the old days for paying the rent. the rent man would come round and collect the money for every house in the whole street, and once he had done and all the rent books were marked up to date, one of the boys would hold him up at gunpoint in the back entry and take all the money back off him, and then he'd hand it straight back to all the residents in the street, with a little commission for the service. yeah, it was a very effective system. and the rent man was so good about it in the end that eventually they cut him in for a wee bit, too, and everybody was happy. except for the council, i suppose. his work's giving my da a house in england now if he wants one. it's got a garden and everything, and two toilets, and they're both inside the house. there's nothing wrong with an outside toilet, except on an aeroplane. my ma says, if we went across the water, they wouldn't understand the way we talk. that shouldn't be a problem, son. i've been married to your granny for 50 years. i've never understood a word she's said. and if they can't understand you, then they're not listening, and that's their problem. you know, when i was in leicester, they said the same thing about me. you know, so i put on a different bloody accent every day just to annoy them. they never knew who i was. but i did, and that's the only one who needs to know. you know who you are, don't you? yes, pop. you're buddy from belfast 15, where everybody knows you and your pop looks out for you and your mummy looks out for you, your daddy looks out for you, your granny looks out for you, your brother looks out for you, and the whole family looks out for you. and wherever you go and whatever you become, that'll always be the truth. and that thought will keep you safe. it'll keep you happy. will you remember that for me? - yes, pop. - aye. fine man you are. now, forget about what your father and your mother want. what do you want? i want you and my granny to come, too. hear me. hear me. i am here tonight to warn you that you have yet a chance and hope of escaping my fate. who wears chains that size? granny, you're not allowed to talk in the theater. it makes one heck of a necklace. you were always a good friend to me. thank you. you will be haunted. is this the chance and hope you mentioned, jacob? it is. i think i'd rather not. oh, i'm bloody well sure you wouldn't. when will pop get out of the hospital? when the doctors say his lungs are fine. when pop went to england to be a coal miner, did you go with him? did you want to? neither do i. has your father said what he's doing? he says it has to get decided by christmas. when's he coming back? at the weekend. we're going to the pictures. he's taking us to chitty chitty bang bang. what in the name of god is that? it's a flying car. oh, god, i've heard it all. it goes over a cliff, and you nearly fall out of your seat. do you want to come? it'll be company for you till my pop's home. if god had wanted me to see flying cars, i'd have been born with blinking wings. you love your films, don't you? i was a great one for the pictures when i was your age. i used to think you could climb right inside the screen and visit all those strange places you saw. like that one in that film. what was that, uh...? uh, lost horizons. - did you ever see that? - no. what was the name of the place, granny? shangri-la. that's what they called it. did you ever go there? there were no roads to shangri-la from our part of belfast. so, will you go one day? what? where do they think they're going? look out! what's happening? look! - oh! - look at that! it's fantastic. you're a genius. it's nothing, really. - ♪ chitty bang bang ♪ - ♪ chitty bang bang ♪ ♪ chitty chitty bang bang, chitty bang bang ♪ ♪ chitty chitty bang bang ♪ ♪ chitty bang bang, chitty chitty bang bang ♪ ♪ oh, you, pretty chitty bang bang ♪ ♪ chitty chitty bang bang, we love you... ♪ no, shut up. you'll get us thrown out. ♪ chitty chitty bang bang ♪ ♪ what we'll do? near, far, in our motorcar ♪ ♪ oh, what a happy time we'll spend ♪ ♪ bang bang, chitty chitty bang bang ♪ ♪ our fine four-fendered friend ♪ ♪ bang bang, chitty chitty bang bang ♪ ♪ our fine four-fendered friend ♪ ♪ chitty bang bang, chitty chitty bang bang... ♪ oh, look at this. ♪ chitty bang bang, chitty chitty bang bang ♪ ♪ oh, you, pretty chitty bang bang ♪ ♪ chitty chitty bang bang... ♪ get da, not me. - mummy. - don't shoot me. no, buddy, don't. hey, hey! ♪ near, far, in our motorcar ♪ ♪ oh, what a happy time we'll spend ♪ ♪ bang bang, chitty chitty bang bang ♪ ♪ our fine four-fendered friend... ♪ 20-nil! ♪ our fine four-fendered ♪ - ♪ friend... ♪ - ♪ chitty chitty bang bang ♪ ♪ chitty chitty bang bang, fine four-fendered ♪ ♪ chitty chitty friend. ♪ ah, come on. here. sit down for a few minutes here. we've a wee word to have with you. buddy, uh, mum and i want to talk to you about something, something that we might have to do as a family. you know the way your dad's over in england and he's been working over there for quite a while? well, we were thinking that, uh, you know, maybe we'd all go as a family and go live there. and, um, your dad's seen a really nice wee house, and it's got a lovely garden and... play football, buddy. - aye. - there's loads of room there. more room than we have here. - i don't want to go to england! - could you switch that off? i don't want to go to england! it's all right, darling. - hey, it's okay. - it's all right. i'll have no friends and no cousins, and i won't be able to see catherine at school! hey, listen, you'll make new friends, and you're gonna have a big garden to play football in. i don't care about the garden! i want my granny and my pop, and i want to do my project on going to the moon and get on the first desk, and i don't want to - have to talk funny. - hey, hey, buddy. and i don't want to forget what road i have to - go down when i'm dead. - that's enough now, darling. no one's asking you to talk funny. - no decision's been made yet. - it's all right. exactly. no, we were just trying to see what everyone thought first. - you're just overtired. - exactly. yeah. i don't want to leave belfast! let's just leave it till easter. - see where we are then. - aye. these boys are suffering. i don't think we've got till easter. i don't think you and me have got till easter, either. well, come home. we'll fight this together. kids the same age as ours are getting killed around the corner. well, we'll be careful. you can't be with them 24 hours a day. you can't take away their childhood, either. you know, whatever happens... ...what you've done with these two, it's phenomenal. what are you talking about? you raised them. not me. not us. you. thank you. we'll see what happens by easter. i'll take the bins out, make a cuppa, get these'ns to bed. ♪ i wish i had you ♪ ♪ in carrickfergus ♪ back to bed. ♪ only for nights ♪ see you in two weeks. ♪ in ballygrand ♪ ♪ i would swim over ♪ ♪ the deepest ocean ♪ ♪ the deepest ocean ♪ ♪ to be by your side ♪ ♪ but the sea is wide ♪ ♪ and i can't swim over ♪ ♪ and neither have ♪ ♪ i wings to fly ♪ ♪ oh, i wish i could find me ♪ ♪ a handy boatman ♪ ♪ to ferry me over ♪ hey, you're gonna bring the whole thing down. ♪ to my love and die. ♪ - five. - six. - seven. there used to be 40 houses here in this mainly roman catholic street. that was before the trouble in the middle of august. now the government are proposing to rebuild this street, but there are increased tensions in the city, and the move comes amid warnings of renewed violence. moondance at seven-to-two. has to win, don't you think? what's going on in your comic? well, he has to defeat the monster. - what? - oh. - they're my chips. - what's yours is mine, - and what's mine's my own. - granny says that. - what does that even mean? - you'll find out. now, you go and wait at your granny's. i'll come and pick you up after i've seen my father, - okay, son? - all right, daddy. right, wee fella, you did well for not grassing us to the police, so you're in. what do you mean? you're one of us now, and this is it. - this is what? - this is war. let's go, boys! let's do this! what are we gonna do? whatever the hell we want. our blood's up, lads. our bloods up. authorities are urging citizens to return to their homes immediately and to stay inside and off the streets until further notice. effective immediately. they machine-gunned us. armored cars paving the way for the hooligans to come in. everybody, home now. this doesn't look good. come on, let's go. i'm going home! i'm going home! no, you're not. i want to go home! you're coming with us. i want to go home. go on, smash them! come on! get in here! get it! go on! take it easy, man! we don't want any trouble! oh, for god's sake, leave it! come on, let's go! this city belongs to the protestants! get yourself something. - what? - whatever you need. washing powder! lock the doors! lock the doors! mammy! mammy! here, what the hell's going on? oh, mammy! we're looting the supermarket. where did you get that? i told you, we're looting the supermarket. you're what? you wait right there, young man. why did you take that washing powder? it's biological. come on. move! move it! you watch yourselves. now, you put that back. do you hear me? and if you ever, ever do anything like that again, i will kill you. do you hear me? and you, young madam, if you ever drag my son into something like this again, i will beat you black and blue until you never get home again. do you hear me? all right? put it back i said. hey, woman! we don't put things back. that's not the statement we're trying to make. billy, come on. the army are coming. come on! out! go on, get out! - out! - all right, all right. come on! clear the street! clear the street now! tear gas and rubber bullets will be used! we're clearing this area! move out the way now! - time to get out of here. - don't try anything. so you two are going to guarantee safe passage for me and my men. if you try to run, i'll put a bullet in your son's head. ah, here he comes, the lone ranger. clear this area right now! i can see your kind needs a little discipline. you let them go now. no, i think if i do, one of them soldiers is gonna take my head off. if they don't, i will. over their dead bodies. folks always have a problem with change. but you'd better get used to it, mister. people like me run this town now. and it's people like you that bring us all down. ♪ i do not know what fate awaits me ♪ ♪ i only know i must be brave ♪ ♪ and i must face a man who hates me ♪ ♪ or lie a coward ♪ ♪ a craven coward ♪ daddy! ♪ or lie a coward ♪ ♪ in my grave ♪ ♪ oh, to be torn twixt love and duty ♪ ♪ s'posin' i lose my fair-haired beauty ♪ ♪ look at that big hand move along ♪ ♪ nearin' high noon ♪ ♪ he made a vow while in state's prison ♪ ♪ vowed it would be my life or his'n ♪ ♪ i'm not afraid of death, but, oh ♪ ♪ what will i do ♪ ♪ if you leave me? ♪ ♪ do not forsake me, oh, my darlin' ♪ this isn't the end, pal! ♪ you made that promise as a bride ♪ ♪ do not forsake me, oh, my darlin' ♪ ♪ although you're grievin' ♪ ♪ i can't be leavin' ♪ ♪ now that i need you ♪ ♪ by my side. ♪ thanks. it's gonna be all right. i'll talk to the committee, get this fixed. there'll be no more bother. i caught sight of my face in that shop window when i was running down the street and dragging them poor kids behind me. and i was looking in the mirror just now... ...at that same face. and i asked myself... "what the hell am i doing?" and then i was sick. like i am every morning now. and i realized... ...i don't think it really matters anymore. so, tomorrow... ...when uncle mack and auntie violet come round... ...we're going to start packing. you have no choice. you know they're gonna come for you, don't you? and this time, they'll send somebody serious. get yourselves to the moon. london's only one small step for a man. belfast will still be here when you get back. will you? i'm going nowhere you won't find me. and now to announce the winners of our school moon project. well, how'd it go with this? we got a gold star. ah, good on youse. now, tell me this, seeing as you two will know... how do i get to the moon with only ten pound, three leaky umbrellas and my bus pass? see, there's an art to an ulster fry, son. mind you, i'm glad your aunt violet's away up the stairs there with your ma. she keeps banging on now about how northern ireland's got the highest rates of "chlomestremol" in the world. sure, i think it's great that we're world champions at something. do you mind answering that for me, son, while i've got this hot pan on? is your mother in, son? watch yourself, missus! where's your white stick? are you all right, son? will you ask in there for my daddy, please? - point out who he is. - the farmer says, "no," and he goes, "do you have any bread?" excuse me. your little lad's here. what's that? it was good to see him one last time. there. oh, i'm done. - here. you're all right. - oh, dear. will! - you're all right. - yeah. take that note up to mrs. hewitt and get the wee message for your granny. for her nerves. come on. that was a lot of people that came to see him today. aye. he was very popular. and he owed half of them money. he used to help me with my maths. he was a very deep thinker. a very deep thinker. did he help you? yeah. yeah, he did help me. he helped me a lot. "for now we see through a glass, darkly; "face-to-face: "for now i-i know in part; but then i shall know "as also i am known. "for when i was a child, "i spake as a child, i understood as a child, "i thought as a child: but then i became a man and i put away childish things." so do not say in grief that you are sorry he is gone, but rather, say in thankfulness you are grateful he was here. god love him. that wee dote. ah, i'll miss him, now. and we'll be sure to toast him down the club, eh? will we head down now, sure, will we? i'm sure your man'll have a wee sing-along with the jukebox. ♪ hearts gone astray ♪ ♪ leaving hurt when they go ♪ ♪ i went away ♪ ♪ just when you need me so ♪ ♪ you won't regret ♪ ♪ i come back begging you ♪ ♪ won't you forget ♪ ♪ welcome love we once knew ♪ ♪ open up your eyes, then you realize ♪ ♪ here i stand with my everlasting love ♪ ♪ need you by my side, girl, to be my bride ♪ ♪ you'll never be denied, everlasting love ♪ ♪ from the very start, open up your heart ♪ ♪ feel that you're part of everlasting love ♪ ♪ need a love to last forever ♪ ♪ need a love to last forever. ♪ top o' the world, ma! top o' the world! buddy. follow me. - hi, buddy. - hello. - thanks. - thanks. i'll come back. make sure you do. - cheerio. - cheerio. daddy, do you think me and that wee girl have a future? well, why the heck not? you know she's a catholic? oh. that wee girl can be a practicing hindu or a southern baptist or a vegetarian antichrist, but if she's kind and she's fair and you two respect each other, she and her people are welcome in our house any day of the week. agreed? mind you, does that mean you and me have to start going to confession? probably. that's us two in trouble, then. go. go now. don't look back. i love you, son. provided by explosiveskull https://twitter.com/kaboomskull ♪ yeah ♪ ♪ yeah ♪ ♪ yeah ♪ ♪ and we'll walk down the avenue again ♪ ♪ and we'll sing all the songs from way back when ♪ ♪ yeah ♪ ♪ and we'll walk down the avenue again ♪ ♪ and the healing has begun... ♪ ♪ and we'll walk down the avenue in style ♪ ♪ and we'll walk down the avenue ♪ ♪ and we'll smile ♪ ♪ yeah, we'll say ♪ ♪ "baby, ain't it all worthwhile ♪ ♪ when the healing has begun?" ♪ ♪ all right, when the healing has begun ♪ ♪ oh, yeah ♪ ♪ whoo ♪ ♪ whoo ♪ ♪ all right, whoo ♪ ♪ yeah ♪ ♪ ah ♪ ♪ whoo ♪ ♪ when you hear the music ringing in your soul ♪ ♪ and you feel it in your heart and it grows and grows ♪ ♪ and it came from the backstreet rock and roll ♪ ♪ and the healing has begun ♪ ♪ that's where it come from, man ♪ ♪ baby, you know how i feel ♪ ♪ when the healing has begun ♪ ♪ when the healing ♪ ♪ when the healing has begun ♪ ♪ and the healing ♪ ♪ and the healing has begun ♪ ♪ we're gonna dance ♪ ♪ we're gonna stay out all night long ♪ ♪ we're gonna dance to the rock and roll ♪ ♪ when the healing has begun ♪ ♪ oh, baby ♪ ♪ now you just ♪ ♪ let me ease on a little bit ♪ ♪ you dig this ♪ ♪ backstreet jelly roll ♪ ♪ and the healing ♪ ♪ and the healing has begun ♪ ♪ yeah, yeah ♪ ♪ and the healing has begun ♪ ♪ and the healing, and the healing... ♪