i'm going to california and i'll be sleeping out every night i'm going to california and i'll be sleeping out every night 'cause them oklahoma women well, they just ain't a-treatin' me right well, i'd rather drink muddy water oh, and sleep in a hollow log but i would rather drink muddy water oh, and sleep in a hollow log than to be down here in texas treated like a low-down dog with them california waters oh, they taste like cherry wine them california waters taste just like cherry wine yeah. cherry wine. god dammit, woody. i've got half a notion to pull up stakes and hit the road for california. i been thinking about heading down the gulf of mexico, or the rio grande valley. just somewheres i can grow some fruit. peaches. them indian blood peaches with that red meat. shit fire, carl, why down there? in california you just plop a seed in the ground, you find a sprout the very next day. well, it seems i sure gotta do somethin'. i just don't know what's gonna happen to everybody around here. you, folks, sure are depressing. well, we got one. put a buck's worth in, pop. yes, sir. a buck's worth of the finest gasoline in texas. you boys got any news? ain't nothing interesting to tell about, except people are moving outta these parts. my name's collister, and i've been running all over this here state to them fortune tellers, ain't one of them's told me a damn thing. someone tell me something worth listening to, and i'll pay them a dollar good american money. it's been pretty dusty around here. that ain't worth nothing. hell, woody, that ain't worth nothing for sure. well, i ain't much for fortune telling. you're a inside man. got a big job with the oil refinery. how'd you know that? ain't nobody else got money to waste on fortune teller, soda pop. keep going. well, them creases in between your eyebrows tell me you're probably a man who takes his work serious. always looking for a way to do things better. you got 50 cents. keep talking. oh, you probably got some kind of idea. an invention of some kind. big company wants to buy you out. you got a paper dollar, if you can tell me when to do it. hell, uh, i ain't no mind reader. you're the only one i ever met that didn't claim to know everything in the whole world. what's your name? woody. woody guthrie. well, guthrie, i'll spread the word. worth every penny. thank you kindly. there you are, pop, and there's a nickel for the coke, dollar for the gas. ...and the mama bear says, "well, ain't nobody gonna eat none of my porridge and get away with it." so she takes a pair of sheep shears and she cuts every hair off the top of that little kid's head. yeah, ain't that something? then, uh, you know, old goldilocks, she just goes on back into the forest and, uh, she goes to sleep for about 20 years and when she wakes up, all her hair is growed back. well, looks pretty good, don't it? it looks darn good. but, there ain't nobody around here gonna pay you to talk to them. oh, now, that fellow down at the gas station said i was the best fortune teller he had ever seen. that weren't nothing but happenstance, and you know it. you could be making regular money with your sign painting, woody, if you tried. there just ain't no sense in just harping on it, mary. it ain't no good. you could do it, woody. you could do them so special, somebody'd be sure and want them. come on in. talk it over lay your head upon my shoulder she's my curly-headed baby come from sunny tennessee oh, but i ain't really a doctor. well, she ain't sick, exactly. her oldest girl died of the dust pneumonia almost a week ago. she ain't drunk a drop of water since. she just can't swallow. i don't see how there's anything i can... now look, some fortune tellers have got the gift. healing, laying on the hands, the discerning of spirits. i ain't really a fortune teller. poor little thing. we can't just let her waste away. go on, go on. ma'am? do you have faith that you'll be cured? well, look... your daughter. don't you believe she's up in heaven? well, uh... that means you believe in god. and if there is a god, then it was him gave you your mind. well, everybody knows, mind's the boss of the whole body. just tell all the nerves and muscles what to do. your arms and hands and back. throat. you don't wanna die, do you? leave your husband and your kids all alone? your husband wants you to talk to him, don't he? and your kids to boot. ain't no two ways about that. can i have some water here? away all that monkey business. just send a message straight down there to your throat, mouth, and tell them to just swig down this here water. thank you. just try. just do it. and afterwards, you... you tell me how dandy it was. now, you swallow it. now, swallow it. it was easy. you did it. you can do it some more. now, next couple of days, i want you two ladies just to pour water down this here lady's throat. why, you can have a water drinking contest every now and then. you just talk to her now about everything. talk to her. you'll be okay. see, you don't... you don't owe me nothing. bless you, mr. guthrie. did it. i think. good afternoon, donna jo. oh, good afternoon, woody. woody, do you and mary have any use for a bedroom set? it's real nice. it's called the waterfall design or something. i just hate to leave it sit there. howdy, jesse. uh, sure. sure, i guess we can, uh, we can do something with it. good. there's an old chair in there, too. we just ain't got room for everything. where you folks going? california. i don't know, it just seems like everything run out around here when jesse got laid off. oh, you all are welcome to anything that you find in there that you wanna use. okay, thank you kindly, donna jo. you folks take care. might get us some jobs in that new department store down in amarillo. hell, pa, i ain't gonna be no shoe salesman. well, there might be something else. well, it's too dammed far out there anyhow. you tell her that when she's begging for milk in the morning. tell her it's too far to travel. mary, it's 62 miles. maybe you could sing one of your songs to her or tell her fortune instead. mary, just don't start in on me, okay? now, it don't do no good to be carrying on. times and the weather are bad enough. it just don't do no good. i don't mean to be starting in. i don't mean to be always at you, woody, but it just don't seem fair. even your brother's been out looking for something and he's just a boy. hey, how about me painting some new signs there on your truck, jethro? no, not today, woody. what in the hell are you doing anyway? i told you i wanted white on black. yeah, i thought you'd like red better. shows up from a mile away. i asked for white on black and you give me this red bitch thing? was you planning on getting paid for this? well, i was planning on it. well, just plan away, guthrie. what am i supposed to do with this red bitch anyways? well... why don't you fold it five ways and stick it where the sun don't shine. i'll tell you what else i don't need, i don't need none of your damn lip. that's what i don't need, guthrie. ain't you kids got nothing better to do than lollygag around here? she's my curly-headed baby used to sit on daddy's knee she's my curly-headed baby comes from sunny tennessee i'm gonna tell you 'bout these women i'm gonna tell you what they do lay their head upon your shoulder flirt around... did you really write that song about me? oh, sure. sure it's about you. damn right. curly-headed lady remember what you asked me? it hasn't been outta my mind for a second. i don't care. care about what? if we do. do what? you know. come on. guess this town ain't entirely dead yet. i don't know if you knew it or not, but you're looking at an insane man. well, uh... why don't you take off a couple of sweaters and sit down? i really am insane. hell, yeah, so am i. i heard tale about you in the next town and thought i better come. i been in the insane asylum twice. you have? i had better watch out to have you around the place. i wasn't crazy when they sent me there, but then i beat up on two guards in the pea patch and now i'm here and even if they get me pretty quick, well, i wanted to tell you, i got newsreels in my head. newsreels? yeah. since i was a kid and my mama always told me i was crazy. they just never stop. what kinda newsreels? that the boom is over and the weeds are blowing out. and the dust storms are getting darker and there's people fighting and killing and there's kids sick. ain't nothing wrong with your head. i see these shapes and designs and i see how to build roads better and... is them your brushes? uh, sure. yeah. i'm, uh, kind of a painter. i sure wish i could sit down and paint all them pictures i see. sometimes i think i could just spend forever just painting and painting all them pictures. well... why don't you just take these? take 'em? i ain't got no money. you don't need no money, just take them. i got plenty more. and some of this ink here. take those ideas and find yourself some place where, uh, where nobody, uh... where nobody'll bother you, and just, uh, put those things down. just put those things down on paper. you know? now bow to the partner now out to the corner join hands, turn to the left all form with your left hand right and left hand turn on around and come on back tie the knot all form with your left hand right and left hand onto the next cowboy move meet your partner, go turn half to the right turn on around and come on back all look around tie the knot all form with the left hand right and left hand do-si-do about turn go on now dust storm. dust storm is coming. dust storm. dust storm. dust storm. hey! hey! better get along home, woody. - you better get inside, woody. - okay. well, looks like things ain't gonna be too pleasurable around here. no, it ain't. it's gonna be a real zinger. - can i help you? - i got it. let's move the couch, pa. you're gonna ruin them things, playing them in this dust. a little dirt won't hurt. and i hate to hear that ol' soft whistle blowing it's that long lonesome train whistling down and you and i go down to the train morning, jimmy. morning, woody. well, uh, got any more dances lined up? ain't heard of none. what about that place over at catersville? they was giving a dance a month. yeah. used to. yeah, well... take her easy, jimmy. hold it, let me give you a push. all right there, woody. what do you think it is, joe? i don't know, woody. - you're stuck. - thanks a lot, though. it's dust, that's what it is. bye, woody. seems like things just ain't going so good, around here. that's the way they's going. hi, honey. hi, honey. see you later, woody. morning. get down. get down, boy. get down. this train going to california? it's going in that direction. can't ask for more than that. uh, are you boys gonna catch this train? yeah. mind if i ride along? no. how come we're sitting here so long? oh. you're cute. welcome aboard, boys. welcome, cowboys. kiss my ass. mind moving over a little bit, there, friend? much obliged. my name's guthrie. slim snedeger. slim. that there is po steve. hi, steve. i'm crippled whitey. whitey. crippled whitey, huh? crippled whitey is a fight spotter. a fight spotter? yeah. i can spot a fist-fight on the street three blocks before i come to it. i can spot a gang-fight an hour before it happens. that way, i tip off the boys, and they know how to lay their bets. you, uh, got a fight spotted now, whitey? got a whopper. when's it gonna happen? not more than ten minutes. aw, bullshit. you watch your tongue, you young jackass, or i'll tear you apart. hey whitey, if one doesn't start a fight himself, you're gonna whip up one of your own, huh? when it starts, i'll be sure to bust a box over your head, fella. cantankerous, ain't he? yeah. but it be he's like that sometime. riding these boxcars and things can make you meaner than 52 rattlesnakes. beats walking, though. don't it? hey! don't push me out! whitey. whitey, let go! hey, whitey! hey, we're slowing down. let's jump off this son-of-a-bitch. - jump? - jump! - go ahead, jump! - wait a minute. and, when you hit the ground, be on your feet. that way, you won't break your ass. come on. come on up here. what's wrong? my brushes. damn, i lost my brushes. you gonna lose your ass if you don't come on up here. you're hanging half-way between heaven and hell. come on up here. let's move on down the car there. - damn. - let's move on down. them was about the best brushes money could buy. you a artist? oh, i was hoping to pick up some money painting signs on the way. i'm pretty good at sign painting. sign painter, huh? i expect you're gonna do all right in california. know why? 'cause they is putting up signs and buildings and everything out there. you been? who, me? naw. but i heard a heap of talk about it. they tell me california is a place for some real nice living. that's what i hear. what're you gonna do when you get there? well... whoo! well, first thing i'm gonna do is take me a long look at that pacific ocean, 'cause i been wanting to see that bugger all my life. then, i expect i'll ease on down to one of them fruit orchards and get me a job picking fruit. they tell me fruit is just begging to be picked out there. you know what i mean? you drop a seed in the ground, and you blink your eye, and you got yourself a tree busting with fruit. yeah? everything a man needs is right out there in california. know what i mean? everything a man needs. yep. let's check them, boys. shit! we coming into acomita. come on outta there, you yahoos. come on. come on outta there, now, dammit! get outta there, woman. - no! - pull her out! okay, boys. you old bastard, ice didn't help this one. smells like he's been in there for a week. you gentlemen haven't been taking full advantage of the railroad's facilities. we want you to ride in full comfort, so we're gonna put you inside, where you can stretch out your legs and rest your heads back on doilies. wouldn't that be nice? how much money you got? a dollar fifty, dollar eight, i don't know. he can ride all the way to holden on that. write him up a ticket. how much you got? don't hear nothing jingling. don't feel nothing folding. boy, you appear to be a vagrant. we have a curfew on vagrants. or didn't you know that? uh, i don't believe i did. when is it? every hour on the hour. get on your hands and knees, sonny. i could shoot you in the hand if i wanted, or in the thigh, in the soft part. or i could take you out in them weeds after everybody's gone. your mother'd wait a long time for those letters you promised to write. come on, move on, let's get aboard. come on. keep it moving. now the rest of you get your ass down the road. come this way again, gentlemen, and it'll be thirty days. thirty big 'uns. well, move it out. so long, guthrie. see ya in california. take it easy, slim. but take it! howdy, pastor, uh, my name is guthrie. i, uh... well, uh, if you got any work i could do for just a small meal of some kind. well, sir, i would do anything to earn it. son, i've been in the service all my life, and have seen thousands of men like you go to work for a meal. however, at this moment, there isn't any work to be done. therefore, if i were to feed you, it would be an act of charity, which may be all right for the moment, but, uh, could cause harm in the long run. you seem to have retained your pride and your dignity, since you didn't ask outright for a free meal. and that's to your credit. but, to answer your question, there's no work to be done. therefore, you, uh, can't earn your meal. good luck, son. oh, we've been all over. niagara falls, washington dc, new orleans, chicago. spent a couple weeks this past winter in miami beach. it must've been real interesting. you bet it was, meeting and talking with different people, seeing all the sights. going in the unusual restaurants. you know, i found out something about eating, since i been on my trip. oh really? what was that? i found out that, uh, the more you eat, the more you shit. well, i said to the rich give your goods to the poor and they laid jesus christ in his grave jesus was a man a carpenter by hand his followers true and brave one day a little coward named judas iscariot laid jesus christ in his grave put your money away, guthrie. it's on the house. you really sing great. you know the one i like the best? you know that one that you sing about that dead cowboy guy? i like it. it's good. i wrote that song especially just for you. in the pig's ass you did, guthrie. just seems walking's better than stalking. to who's you talking? man is a-walking. why is he talking? keep on walking. keep on walking. walking and talking. talking and walking. walking and talking. talking and walking. california. hey, take a look at that. california. everything a man needs. see it right there. yeah. yes, sir, california state line. what's going on? i don't know. looks like some kind of hold up. maybe a accident, or something. accident, hell. they're turning people back. what's going on? oh, they're checking everybody out, to see if you got any money. gotta have $50 to get across the border. fifty dollars? yeah, in cash. that's right. the los angeles police came out here and set up this blockade. are we that close to los angeles? yeah, about 300 miles. jesus. what're you gonna do? ain't no sense in waiting in line, a half day, just to get shoved back by them. i might as well turn back right now. you coming? no, i reckon there's more than one way to get across the border if you don't have a family tagging along. look, uh, why don't you take this. it ain't no $50, but, uh, you got them kids and all. thanks. i appreciate that, friend. maybe we'll both be millionaire's sons next time we meet each other. - maybe so. - hope so, anyway. - take care. - kind of you. howdy. hey. hey. why don't you come over and share my bundle, huh? come on. sure. thanks, mister. i can't stand chattering teeth. better watch yourself, 'cause by the time she gets here, she's gonna be moving like a turpentined cat. you sure you know what you're doing? them guards won't do nothing once she's moving. get us into la before you know what happened. ain't that a son-of-a-bitch? i never seen a train take off so... you got him, sam. it is about as clean as this wall is gonna get. oh, yes. did you get up there? right on top there? yep, i sure did. where's my chili? i'm very choosey over there, you know. well, what's your name? - uh, woody. - yeah, woody. yes sir, best chili in the city. hey, goodbye fellas. best in the world, as far as i'm concerned. here. have some onion and crackers. put lots of onion in it. - tastes good that way. - mmm-hmm. hey, now, look at this mess, huh? just one bowl of chili and lotta mess. do you know where a fella can get a job hereabouts? you just come in town? mmm-hmm. yeah, this morning. you better go home. a bowl of chili and crackers! - hey, deadhead. - push it down a little. you mean, let it down? you know what i mean. don't get smart. okay, this is as far as it'll go down. if i let it down it won't go on... i can't even lift the thing. it won't go on the hub. get on there. it keeps slipping. would you just like to do this yourself? looks like a mighty stubborn tire. just like everything else. be glad to help. we'd sure appreciate it. yeah. oh, this wheel's bent. bent? seems like everything in california is bent. i hope we find something in this place. yeah. she just needs milk real soon. we'll be okay. what the hell's going on here? how come all these people are living like this? it ain't no different. it's the god damn same as all the rest. the growers, they need three or four hundred workers. they put out leaflets and posters, and advertise for a thousand, and 1200 showed up. they got the first ones that get here, crammed inside them shacks over there. they're the ones that are working pretty steady. all the rest of us are sitting on our asses every morning, hoping they're gonna need extra workers. hell, i worked three days in the last two weeks. and the wages, they doesn't buy... the wages... i don't know. makes me sick just talking about it. what're we gonna do then? we got nothing left. ain't got no choice. you're welcome to spend the night in the truck if you want. seems to me, something ought to be done about this. there's nothing. there's always something. there's been some talk about forming a union and going on strike, but... hell, woody, not many people can afford to miss a day's work. by the time they call on us to pick, we're more than happy to work for four cents a bushel. what do you say, uh, if i took this little ol' guitar into town? maybe i can, uh, pick up a dime or two. you coming back? i got no place to sleep, except in your truck. hell, yeah, go ahead and take it, i ain't in too much of a mood for using it anyway. thanks. see you later. tell ya what, i'll paint you a new sign out there, for a bowl of that soup. well, i'll tell you what. it's not necessary. the food is free. well, suppose i said, i don't want no free food. well, suppose i said, we don't have any other kind? well, i guess i'd have to say, "please pass the soup." do you play? yep. i studied piano years ago. i never had the patience. that so? yes. would you really paint us a sign? for food? for a favor. i'd have to think about that. uh, we don't have any painting right now. oh, i wanna... i wanna paint a sign. why don't we bring some tomorrow? yeah, well, i'll, uh, see if i can come back. uh, thanks for the soup. red and white paint. it's pretty nice. red and white. well, i was down in the hen house on my knees i thought i heard a chicken sneeze it was only a rooster saying his prayers thanking his god for the hens upstairs just taking it easy oh, lady, what'd you say? get him, bill! quiet down, now quiet. now, we need 30 more pickers for today. quiet. quiet! we're paying four cents a bushel! four cents! well, line up over here by the gate in single file. stop pushing and shoving over there. all right, line up over here by the gate, in single file. okay, men, hold it. line up over here. quiet! quiet! we're looking for pickers, not a bunch of sand-eaters! keep on shoving and we won't take anybody! cheapskate! bastards. god damn bastards. that's all they're taking, 30 people? that's it. that's all they ever take. well, hell, why do you stay here? listen, why don't you go to one of them other camps? maybe they're hiring more there. oh, it don't make no difference. i mean, they all work the same. it's the fourth one we've been to and they's all alike. all of 'em is bastards. oh, that's beautiful! i had a terrible time with the one i did. yeah, it looked like you did. i really appreciate it. can i get you something to eat? not here. what do you mean, "not here?" well, uh... i figured you'd fix me dinner at, uh, your place. no, i couldn't do that. why not? you got a man? no. my husband died. what's your name? - pauline. - mine's woody. how about next sunday, in the afternoon? woody, i'm... i'm not gonna fix you dinner. why not? because i just can't. yeah. 'course you can't. i can't say that i blame you none. that's not the reason. well, it's a pretty good reason. listen, uh... give it a couple hours before you handle it, okay? way down in columbus stockade want to come back to tennessee way down in columbus, georgia wanna be back in tennessee go and leave me if you want to never let me cross your mind if in your heart you love another leave little darling i don't mind thinkin' about my blue-eyed sally pretty little gal that i left behind way down in columbus stockade wanna go back to tennessee way down in columbus georgia wanna be back in tennessee it's ozark. who's ozark? ozark bule, he sings on the radio. sometimes he comes here to entertain us hey, how are you, sis? i swear, you get prettier every day. hey, jed, look over there and see what i brought you guys. open that door. you get to eat it without picking it for a change. well, i can see just by looking at you that you haven't been doing like i said and organizing. you're still letting those bosses stomp all over you and pay you nothing for busting your behinds in those fields all day. now, the only way i'm gonna do any singing here today, is if we all get together and shout "union," okay? now, one, two, three... union! that was pitiful. now, were gonna try it once more and if more of you don't join in than that, i'm getting right back in this car and i'm leaving. no! all right, all right, now, we're gonna try it again. now i wanna hear more of you joining in. now, one, two, three... union! all right. now it wasn't perfect, but i reckon it's a start. okay, let's have a little picking and singing, how about it? yeah! long-haired preachers come out every night try to tell us what's wrong and what's right but when asked about something to eat they will answer in voices so sweet you're gonna eat by and by when you learn how to cook and to fry chop some wood, it'll do you good there'll be pie in the sky when you die that's a lie! in the starvation... hi, neighbors, come on over! come on over. now, i want you to listen to this verse. it makes sense. working men of all countries unite side by side for freedom we will ﬁght when this world and its wealth we have gained to the grafters we'll sing this refrain everybody! you will eat, by and by in that glorious land above the sky work and play, live on hay there'll be pie in the sky when you die that's a dirty lie! one more. one more. no, no, no, i'll tell you something that's even better. now, i want everybody here that plays an instrument, now i know a lot of you do. i want you to go get that instrument and come back here, and we're gonna have the damndest hoe-down you've ever seen in your life. round round joe clark round round i say gonna walk ten thousand miles to hear them ﬁddles play round round joe clark round round i say i'm gonna walk ten thousand miles to hear them ﬁddles play round round joe clark round round i say i'm gonna walk ten thousand miles to hear them fiddles play the valley so low late in the evening hear the wind blow hear the wind blow hear the wind blow late in the evening hear the wind blow roses love sunshine violets love dew angels in heaven know i love you write me a letter send it by mail you people go back to your shacks. send it in care of the birmingham jail the birmingham jail birmingham jail send it in care of so long, it's been good to know you this dusty oil dust storm is getting my goat and i gotta be drifting along drifting along real good. real good. oh, here. this might help. it might at that. this train's bound for glory this train this train's bound for glory this train this train don't carry no gamblers this train this train is bound for glory this train this train is bound for glory this train this train is bound for glory no one but the bold but the righteous and the holy this train is bound for glory this train this train don't carry no liars this train this train don't carry no liars this train this train don't carry no liars or none of those midnight flyers this train is bound for glory this train this train don't carry no con men this train this train don't carry no con men this train hey! this train don't carry no con men none of those wheeler dealers here and gone men this train is bound for glory this train this train is bound for glory this train this train is bound for glory this train this train is bound for glory no one but the bold but the righteous and the holy this train is bound for glory what the god damn hell do you think you're doing'? this train don't carry no smokers what the hell does it look like we're doing'? i warned you to stay away from here, bule. yeah, well, i forgot. get out of here. okay, that's it! come on, get going! get him out of here! get in the car! come on, let him get through! get 'em off. get 'em off that car. i'm gonna bust your head! union. union. union. union. union! union! union! union! union! union! union! union! this sort of thing happen every time you come out to entertain folks? sure seems like it. i figure as long as i'm getting those goons riled up, i'm doin' my job. i'll tell you, those, uh, boys don't seem to like you too much. yeah? well, they didn't seem to like you too much, either. i wasn't even trying. maybe you ought to start. - start what? - trying. trying what? you sure as hell don't look like much. how do you sound? makes me happy. wait till you hear him, mr. locke. okay, guthrie, let's hear something. okay, i'd like to sing a song about... uh, guthrie. let's just get on with it, please. ...a place where i grew up. it's called, uh, in those oklahoma hills where i was born. many a month has come and gone since i wandered from my home in those oklahoma hills where i was born many a page of life was turned many a lesson i have learned and i feel like in those hills i still belong way down yonder on the indian nation ridin' my pony on the reservation in those oklahoma hills where i was born way down yonder on the indian nation a cowboy's life is my occupation in those oklahoma hills where i was born well, as i stand here in la many a mile i am okay, guthrie, we'll give it a try. pony through the draw uh, guthrie... where the oaken blackjack trees kiss the playful prairie breeze look, woody, you have the job. way down yonder on the indian nation ridin' my pony on the reservation in those oklahoma hills where i was born way down yonder on the indian nation a cowboy's life is my occupation in those oklahoma hills where i was born here's an advance, guthrie. i want you to go and get a set of decent clothes. and show up here next thursday! at 20 bucks a week. since i'm almost, uh, half-way respectable now, maybe you could ask me to your house for dinner. that's not why i didn't ask you. well, what is why? i don't know you. well... i think i'd like some chicken with dressing. so go to sleep my weary hobo let the town drift slowly by and can't you hear the steel rails hummin' that's the hobo's lullaby folks, we got a real treat for you tonight. we got an ol' boy from oklahoma who not only sings songs, he write 'em. and, his name is woodrow wilson guthrie, but we just call him woody. and his song is called, i ain't got no home. well, i ain't got no home i'm just ramblin' around i'm a hard workin' ramblin' man and i go from town to town police make it hard hard everywhere i go and i ain't got no home in this world anymore i used to work for shares seems like i was always poor laid my crops right at the bankers door my wife took up and died on the cabin floor and i ain't got no home and i ain't got no home howdy, ozark! hi, neighbors! can i talk to you for just a minute? sure. sure. sure can. it seems to me, if i had to drag my tail home with 75 or 80 cents in my pocket, after working all day like this, i'd begin to wonder if something maybe wasn't a little bit wrong. maybe it'd be nice if you had enough money to put food on the table at the end of the day. well, did you ever stop to wonder if maybe you couldn't do something about the way you live, because you can, friends. woody! come on, i'm gonna get you! get out! and move your bunch and stay out of this valley! you people get back to work! union! union! union! i been ridin' fast traveling i thought you know'd i been ridin' in ﬂat wheelers way down the road i been ridin' in blind passengers dead enders kickin' up cinders i been havin' some hard travelin' lord i been walkin' that lincoln highway i thought you know'd i been kickin' at sixty-six away down the road i got a heavy load, and a worried mind i'm lookin' for a woman that's hard to ﬁnd i been havin' some hard travelin' lord whoo! all right! give a big cheer here. them farm workers need your help. i was expecting the mayor. thought this was city hall there, for a second. come on in, woody. how much you get paid for working at that place, anyhow? i don't get paid. i'm a volunteer. excuse me, but, uh, could i ask you a question? sure. what? well, don't you get, uh, embarrassed, ever? "embarrassed ever?" about what? well... don't you get just a little bit embarrassed about having so much, when so many people, uh, got nothing? well, i don't think embarrassed. i am very sorry that there are so many people who have nothing. yeah, sure. 'course you are. sorry you don't get the hand. so, you ladle them up with soup and, uh dish out a little charity. well, woody, we're not all as gifted as you are. some of us just do the best we can. pauline, uh, let me tell you something, uh... well, when i was on the road, i met a lot of different kinds of people. well, there is bums and freeloaders, there's families that was torn apart and... poor people that just was aching for some kind of work. and, men that are just trying to get somewhere. anywhere. they all got something in common, that, uh, every one of them had something to give me. and then you meet, uh, some man that's got some money, and, uh, he'll be, uh, tied up and anxious. the human thing is just gone! it's just gone, 'cause he's afraid. afraid that he's gonna lose something. why, he's afraid to smile 'cause somebody's gonna come and swipe his teeth outta his mouth. woody, you don't really believe that just because a person has money, that he completely loses touch. because that's wrong. i feel as alive and human as anyone else. that don't give me nothing. what the hell am i supposed to give you, woody? just why did you come here? i just like the way you looked, and i thought you had possibilities. possibilities. well, what must you think now? well, i think i'm lookin' at a rich person. so? so, you're the only one that's ever looked back. you know samson went out walkin' and he slew a lion with his bare hands but it took a pretty woman to show samson he was just a lamb come on, woody, we haven't got all day. i have a reputation to uphold. well, i tell ya, if anybody catches us here, they're gonna be a little bit angry at us. it doesn't have to look like rembrandt, did it? boy, i tell you, next time, i'm painting the sign. it ain't bad. well, there ain't no sense in doing it all if somebody can't read it. might as well just go around painting signs white. i can see you never been caught. well, i wouldn't wanna be caught by them guys out here, with a sign that looked as awful as that. e-l-l. i-e. there we go. s. okay. "come on and..." you can read that. come on, let's go. good evening, y'all, this is, uh, woody talking to you, while ozark's catching his breath. i'd like to dedicate a song tonight to all you folks sitting out there in fruit-picking camps. though you're squatting there hungry, you're either too darned hot, or too darned cold, and, uh, wondering, if you should've ever left home. well, this here's for y'all. if we don't organize, if we don't unite in our struggle, those growers will have us on our knees forever! - well, what about a strike? - well, we gotta keep on working! - we gotta strike! - what about our families? we have people working for us! there are donations of food and clothing coming from all over the state! we don't want charity, we want jobs. listen. listen to me. there ain't nobody gonna get any damn jobs until you start to listen to us. you're nothing but a bunch of commies! - right. - sit down! - you sit down! - no! hey, wait a minute. now is not the time to sit down! now is the time to stand up for your rights! aw, sit down and shut up! listen to him! we're telling you the truth! hold it, please! hold it. uh, just a tune about free red range. there once was a union maid who never was afraid of the goons and the ginks and the company ﬁnks and the deputy sheriffs that made the raids she went to the union hall when a meetin' it was called and when the company boys came around she always stood her ground oh, you can't scare me i'm stickin' to the union i'm stickin' to the union i'm stickin' to the union oh, you can't scare me i'm stickin' to the union i'm stickin' to the union until the day i die well, this union maid was wise to the tricks of the company spies she'd never gonna fool by the company stool she'd always organize the guys she always got her way when she'd ask for higher pay she'd show her card to the national guard and this is what she'd say oh, you can't scare me i'm stickin' to the union i'm stickin' to the union i'm stickin' to the union oh, you can't scare me i'm stickin' to the union i'm stickin' to the union - till the day i die - everybody! oh, you can't scare me i'm stickin' to the union i'm stickin' to the union i'm stickin' to the union oh, you can't scare me i'm stickin' to the union i'm stickin' to the union till the day i die i told you. outside! - get your hands off me. - i said outside! uh, excuse me. did you ever think of becoming a painter? i reckon i'd get busted up doing that, just as easy as anything else. i reckon you would. woody. - woody! - uh-huh. i'm happy. i'm really happy that i know you. yeah. yeah, what? yeah, i'm married. i got a wife and i got kids. i guess i could've lied to you before. but i can't lie to you now. starting to care. i was caring, too, pauline. just being around you. knowing you. most of this mail is favorable, woody. yes. very favorable indeed. i didn't have no idea that many people was listening. well, apparently they are. woody, i'm gonna give you and memphis sue your own half hour show to do every night! how does that sound? and, uh, of course, that means more money, too. say, uh, 35 a week? no. however... however what? however, uh, you now have new sponsors, woody, and, uh, they've insisted that there be no controversial material on their program. so, just stick to the songs that have been out and around for awhile and everything" be fine. does that mean i can't do my own songs on the show? of course, you can sing your own songs. long as it, uh, doesn't get anybody riled up. that sure sounds okay with me, mr. locke. uh... sure, i guess it sounds a-okay with me, too. fine, then we'll, uh, start on monday, let's say? operator? yeah, i'd like to talk to mary guthrie, in pampa, texas. you'll have to get hold of a mr. jenkins and, uh, he'll go and get her. it's just so good to hear your voice. well, i'm gonna send you the money. you just come on out here. and i'll find you a little house we can live in. oh, sure, honey, just like you always talked about. i love you, mary. hey, woody. look at that. - what is that? - a field school. what do you think? sure. ...the wonderful thing is you don't have to know how to play one of 'em things. to make music, you just, uh, just sing. you just go ahead and sing any song you wanna sing. you can make up a song and just, uh, just sing it to yourself. you can just go ahead and sing it out screaming loud. you can sing about your troubles or you can sing about your happiness. sing about your teacher, or you can sing about the crop duster. there's singing in all of us. just gotta learn to let it come on out. well, you stick out your little hand to every woman kid and man and you weave it up and down howdido, howdido and you weave it up and down howdido i feel glad when you feel good you brighten up my neighborhood with a dodi di dededi howdido, howdido with a howdi howde hi, howdido you have every right to set down limits, woody. now, he's not gonna allow any preaching on your show. i suppose you're right. but they got a sunday morning gospel hour every night and that fellow sure preaches. that's what locke's paying him to do. he's paying you to entertain. what would you do? i'd do just like he said. you would? because that's how i make my living. that's how i eat. it don't have nothing to do with coming out to the fields or doing the benefits or nothing. you can separate it? just like that? i can separate it. just like that. drop whatever you are doin' stop your work and worry too get right down and take it easy here come woody and memphis sue you just drop off a letter we will sing a song for you easy-going country people plain ol' woody and memphis sue good evening to you all. tonight woody and i have got 30 minutes of your favorites you've been dying to hear and we're gonna start off with simmer on spooning. one, two... i just decided to sing something else. well, lots of folks back east'd say leavin' town most every day tryin' to beat their dusty way to the california line well, across the desert sands they roll tryin' to get outta that ol' dust bowl and they think they're headin' for a sugar bowl here is what they ﬁnd 'cause the police at the port of entry say you're number fourteen thousand for today and if you ain't got the do-re-mi boy you ain't got the do-re-mi you better go back home to beautiful texas oklahoma, georgia, kansas tennessee, south of the border california is the garden of eden the paradise to live in or to see but believe it or not you won't ﬁnd it's so hot if you ain't got the do-re-mi a lost cause, you mean. and he is ticked off. well, i expected that. yeah, well, he said that from now on you have to make a list each week of all the songs you plan on singing. well, he might as well fire me then, 'cause i ain't making no list. dammit, woody, don't you go and mess up this job. now, god knows what's gonna happen to you, if you get can... will you stop splashing when i'm trying to talk to you, for god's sake? now, you stop it, too! now, dammit, that ain't funny! stop it! ain't it something? oh, this city, it's something. you've only seen a bit of it, mary. hey, woody, you know what we ought to do? let's get a picnic basket together and take the girls down to the beach. well, that'd be some time else. me and mary ain't, uh, seen each other for few months. understand? right. hey, listen, you need some help with those? oh, i can handle it okay. thanks for the ride, ozark. you bet. hey, honey, let me show you the inside. look at this. huh? oh! come here, let me show you this. - electric, huh? - oh, a refrigerator! let me show you the bedroom. oh, i ain't finished looking at the kitchen yet, woody. oh, my god! our own bedroom. oh! oh, this pin. it's so pretty, woody. it's so perfect. to celebrate say wooiee! - no! - go ahead. - i don't have to. - why not? go ahead and do it. - no. - go ahead. or i'll tickle you. all right. wooiee! what's the matter? ain't you ticklish no more? come on. do it again, come on. okay! wooiee! wooiee! hey, we have wet shoes. yeah! i think i sounded awful. oh, you were great, sue. - i wasn't great. - you were. mr. guthrie, excuse me, my name's baker. you don't know me. i'm an agent and, uh, i know that you're working here without a contract. now, if you would be willing to travel a bit, i think i could double, maybe triple what you're earning right now. how would you do that? well, better shows, for one thing. mr. guthrie, i think that i could wangle you a coast to coast broadcast. i mean, i know a lot of important people that i would like to talk to about you. well, i'll think it over. well, okay. i mean, i don't wanna press you. why don't i come back when we can talk when i've got something in the works for you? sure. mr. guthrie, you're gonna be on your way before you know it. - hello, baker. - hello. woody, uh, just a minute, please, i wanna talk to you. uh... i haven't seen any list yet. list? yes, you know, the, uh, list of songs that you're scheduled to do next week. well, yeah, i ain't, uh, wrote it yet. well, uh, i need, i need the list, woody. because the, uh, the sponsors are insist... what the hell is that? it's an artichoke. an artichoke. what do you do with it? you eat it. damndest thing i ever seen. don't look too appetizing, do it? i gets paid to pick 'em, not to eat 'em. i guess you are. bet they don't pay you much for picking them ugly old things, either, do they? i don't get much. did you ever think about all that stooping for just pennies? you one of those union men? you, uh, you one of those fellas talking about strike? i talk about whatever it is that works. i got no time to talk to you, mister! we died 'neath your trees and we died in your bushes both sides of the river we died just the same is this the best way we can grow our big orchards? is this the best way we can grow our good fruit? oh, our dry leaves that rot on my topsoil and to be called by no name except deportees goodbye my juan goodbye rosalita jesus y maria you won't have your names when you ride the big airplane all they will call you will be deportees oklahoma, texas ain't nothing compared to california. now that don't seem right somehow, it being so pretty out here and all. no, it ain't right. not at all. does seem like it was easier to put up with nature and dust storms and all than it is to put up with greed. yeah, i guess so. did you, uh, did you ever make that list for mr. locke? no, i didn't. not yet. don't he want it right away? i suppose he does. it ain't that easy for me to do. make up a list. no, i guess not. i was cleaning yesterday, woody, this old man, he must've been 70 years old. he didn't have no teeth, he wasn't wearing no shoes. he came to the door begging for food. i gave him some fried chicken. he was wrinkled. wrinkled ol' face, just lit right up. then i started in worrying about us. i got real worried, woody. asking myself, "my god, are we gonna be like that again, two weeks from now?" i can't help thinking about those bad times. i don't want 'em to happen again. woody? it's me, johnson. hey, it sure is. what the hell happened to you? oh, uh, we had some trouble out there. them, uh, owners has sent the men charging into a picket line that we had set up. and they're swinging their clubs in every direction, just... just got me. did that to you, huh? - yeah. - wow. there were some others, i'm afraid. what about your family? they okay? yeah, yeah, they're fine. fact is, uh, i been learning an awful lot from that baby 0' mine. been learning, have ya? yeah. yeah, i been learning that when that baby wants something, she's gonna cry, and carry on something awful till she gets what she's after. then i started thinking about all those thousands of people, working out there in the fields. never getting nothing they want. just giving up. never saying nothing. i don't wanna wind up like that, woody. i don't wanna end up just sitting around. so, i made up my mind that i'm just gonna speak out. just like that baby of mine. i'm gonna let folks know what i want. well, what's liz think about all this? well, she's plenty scared. you know how women are. she says she's proud of me. i bet she is. yeah. anyway, woody, what i come to tell you is keep up your music, 'cause everybody's listening. well... keep on doing the work, huh? woody. i want the list. and i want it right now. ah, that wasn't so... woody, just a minute, please. it wasn't so painful, was it? "bury me beneath the willow. "sweet pearl. "long green valley", what is that? that's not about the san fernando valley, or pickers, or orchards, or anything like that is it? it's about a man that killed his sweetheart, 'cause she's sleeping around on him. oh, good. least he thinks she was. well, that's good. yeah, these are fine, woody. fine, thank you. it's a mighty hard road that these poor hands have hoed my poor feet have traveled a hot dusty road from out of the old dust bowl and westward we rolled and your desert was hot and your mountains were cold green pastures of plenty from high desert ground from the grand coulee dam where the water runs down this land i'll defend with my life if need be 'cause these pastures of plenty must always be free look on them deserts all around me you and me this land there's a better world a-comin', tell you why there's a better world a-comin', tell you why there's a better world a-comin', by and by there's a better world a-comin' can't you see? can't you see? there's a better world a-comin' can't you see? when we'll all be union and we'll all be free there's a better world a-comin' can't you see? i'm a union man in a union war it's a union world i'm ﬁghtin' for 'cause there's a better world a-comin', tell you why tell you why there's a better world a-comin', tell you why through the marchin' and the battlin' you can see the chains a rattlin' hey, what do you think you're doing? get outta here, boy. i'll get out when i'm good and ready, and i ain't good and ready, just yet. yes, you are! john, hold him! i just been on the bum for the last few months. figured now, i'll go to la and stay there. where you from? shit, i think i was born in an orange grove somewheres, i don't know. do your folks know where you are? unless they lined everyone up and count heads, they wouldn't even know i was missing. daddy! - hey, snooks! - hi, dad! hey! give me a kiss. daddy! what're you doing here, anyway, huh? and the boy scolded us and their mothers and fathers and their sisters pull 'em up. yeah, what he might do, i think, and but we'll eat 'em for dinner. sure. guess who's home? hi, honey. where have you been? oh, i just had to touch the people for a little bit, honey. well, darn it, woody. while you been out fighting again, you may have just lost that job. mr. locke's been calling every day and he's real upset. and that agent fellow's been calling, and he's mad. aw, the hell with them. well, you can't say that. you just can't say that. mr. locke is paying you better money than you ever got before. you can't say the hell with all that. that don't mean nothing. well, if it don't, what does? i know it ain't me and the kids. you don't think nothing about running off whenever you get the urge. oh, mary... don't even talk like that. now, i truly care about you and the kids. i truly care. well, that sure ain't the way it seems! you're spending your whole life out there, trying to fix the world! you're not doing nothing to help our family! hell! i brought you out here to california, didn't i? and then you left! hell, mary, it's just that i can't seem to... i just can't stand to sit still. i always feel like i ought to be somewheres else. anywheres else! what about me? what am i supposed to do? sit and wait, while you are off gallivanting around the country? am i? am i supposed to just sit and worry if the kids are gonna have a daddy? 'cause maybe you got your head bashed in. am i? am i supposed to sit home and pray to god my husband ain't wandering around somewheres bleeding to death? keep going like this, woody, and our family's gonna be down on our knees, begging them growers for a day's work! - dammit, woman... - we're gonna be on our knees begging! stop your talking, will ya? well, shutting me up, isn't gonna make anything better! i said stop talking! i ain't through! just one more word now, just one more word! are you sure you haven't got something else on your mind? you positive? aw... - mary... - don't! and so help me, if anyone else had walked out on me without a word, they'd be out on the street! stop fussing, i'm gonna give you one more chance, just one. but, i want you to be responsible and stick to the songs... no, i won't take off my buckskin gloves they're made of spanish leather i'll go my way from day to day and sing with the gypsy davy and sing it with the gypsy davy that song with the gypsy davy and lovin' that gypsy davy i'd like to dedicate this next song to all you pickers out there, with your hearts aching and your bellies growling. and, i'd like you to remember that if you feel like singing along with me, and you don't know all the words, just go ahead and make up some of your own. i'm sure you all got plenty to say about the way things are. you continually force me to treat you like a child! now, what do i have to say to get through to you? you can tell me you don't like my singing. that is not up to me, woody. there are sponsors. now, if it were up to me... do you like me singing? but, that isn't the point! i'm tryin' to tell you something. there are sponsors. they pay for the right to hear what they wanna hear. maybe you like some of my singing but not all of my singing. woody, please! just listen to me. now they feel that that kind of material... i like my singing too much to take orders from some fat little squirt doesn't even know his own mind. well, then there's not much to discuss, is there? you want the job, or do you not want the job? do you think i can't replace you? in ten minutes? in five minutes? i don't need this place. i can sing on the street if i feel like. well, get the hell out of my office! i don't need you. i can sing while i'm walking. woody! - what the hell you up to? - leave me go, ozark. i ain't in no mood for talking. - you got your butt fired, didn't you? - damn right, i did. what'd he tell you? he didn't tell me nothing. you mean he didn't say anything about baker? - who? - that agent! hell, no! now, well, he wouldn't. you see, baker's just been calling you about 20 times a day. he is starting to get things rolling for you, woody! rolling how? what do you mean? he's got you all signed up to do a spot for cbs. coast to coast! - coast to coast? - that's right! damn. coast to coast. and, that ain't all. he's got an audition lined up with some of the big hotel downtown. a show like that could bring in another hundred a week! damn! shoot, woody! you're gonna wind up singing to this whole damn country! come on, boy, we got us some celebrating to do! damn! coast to coast! come on, woody. jesus! here comes santy claus! where is everybody? everybody's birthday! and there ain't nobody getting any older. mary's gone. she took the kids. gone back to pampa. oh, hell! you don't think she left 'cause you got fired? she left before that. she always leaves the time on the note. 4:30, yesterday afternoon. damn woman, anyhow. who the hell cares what time you write a note? huh? i'm in the mood for love simply because you're near me funny but when you're near me i'm in the mood for love you know, there's, uh, steady money here at the grove. i'm gonna book you here for six weeks, and then i'm gonna book you in every top hotel and club in the country. you know, you gotta watch your step though at cbs. you know, you gotta be careful about the material you select. thank you. thank you. we already have a ballad singer. i think we should see him. oh, guthrie. i had good reports about guthrie. mr. guthrie. it's a mighty hard road that these poor hands have hoed my poor feet have traveled a hot dusty road on the edge of your city you'll see us then and there i've come with the dust and i'm gone mr. guthrie. that's enough. with the wind that's enough, mr. guthrie. thank you! you have a really nice quality. oh, he's wonderful. i told you i had good reports about him. what kind of angle could we use? i mean, western? how about a simple hillbilly presentation? big overalls, uh, maybe a straw hat. stick him in front of a haystack. you know, that might work. we could get the, uh, the benton brothers to back him up. i think so. i think so. maybe they could use him as a lead into something, you know... uh, excuse me, uh, while you folks are talking to each other, i wonder if you could tell me which way is the bathroom. oh, out the door, turn right, and, uh, first door on the right. for god's sake, this is a big chance for you. can you afford to throw it away? where you going? outta this damn hotel. i got no desire to sing to folks that's drinking martinis and stuffing themselves full of lamb chops. well, what about the cbs broadcast? you gonna throw that away, too? tell you, standing in a radio station, doing what they tell me to do ain't my idea of having fun. now, come on, woody, now stop a minute and let's talk it out. this is important to you. oh, it ain't nothing, ozark! tell you what's important. the worse thing that can happen is to cut yourself loose from the folks! where the hell are you going? just tell me where you're going! hell, i don't know. europe, new york, china. new york. maybe i'll come with you. when you leaving? now! dammit, woody, why do you have to go at everything like you're killing snakes with a hoe? - and why new york? - why the hell not? it's got people, don't it? it's got unions! besides, i can sing while i'm walking there! this land is your land this land is my land so long, woody! from california to the new york island from the redwood forest to the gulf stream waters i hate a song that makes you think that you're not any good. i hate a song that makes you think you're just born to lose. bound to lose. no good to nobody. no good for nothing. because you're either too old or too young or too fat, or too thin, or too ugly, or too this or too that. songs that run you down and songs that poke fun of you on account of your bad luck or your hard traveling. i am out to ﬁght those kinds of songs to my very last breath of air and my last drop of blood. i'm out to sing songs and to prove to you that this is your world even if it's kicked you pretty hard and knocked you down for a dozen loops, no matter how hard it's run you down or rolled over you, no matter what color, what size you are, how you're built, i am out to sing the songs that'll make you take pride in yourself! nobody livin' can ever stop me as i go walkin' down freedom highway nobody livin' can make me turn back this land was made for you and me i've roamed and rambled and i followed my footsteps to the sparkling sands of her diamond deserts and all around me a voice was sounding this land was made for you and me when the sun comes shining and i was strolling and the wheat ﬁelds waving and the dust clouds rolling as the fog was lifting a voice was chanting this land was made for you and me nobody livin' can ever stop me as i go walkin' down freedom's highway nobody livin' can make me turn back this land was made for you and me i've sung this song, but i'll sing it over the people i've met the places i've been some of the troubles that bothered my mind and a lot of good people that i've left behind so long, it's been good to know you so long, it's been good to know you so long, it's been good to know you what a long time since i've been home and i've gotta be drifting along tom joad got out of that old mcalester pen 'twas there that he got his parole after four long years on a man killing charge tom joad came walking down the road oh, boy tom joad came walking down the road tell me what were their names tell me what were their names did you have a friend on the good movin' train what were their names tell me what were their names did you have a friend on the good movin' train i'm blowin' down this old dusty road i'm blowin' down this old dusty road i'm blowin' down this old dusty road and i ain't gonna be treated this way roll on, columbia, roll on roll on, columbia, roll on your power is turning our darkness to dawn so roll on, columbia, roll on i been havin' some hard travelin' i thought you know'd i been havin' some hard travelin' way down the road i been havin' some hard travelin' hard travelin, hard gamblin' been having some hard travelin' lord as i went walking that ribbon of highway i saw above me that endless skyway and all around me a voice keeps sayin' this land was made for you and me as i went walking i saw a sign there and on the sign it said no trespassing but on the other side it didn't say nothing that side was made for you and me this land is your land this land is my land from california to the new york island from the redwood forest to the gulf stream waters