*** subtitles created by dylux *** ♪ love ♪ ♪ is a many splendored thing ♪ i'm going back to australia, i might never see you again. don't- don't talk that way, sandy. but it's true. i've just had the best summer of my life and now i have to go away. it isn't fair. danny, don't spoil it. it's not spoiling it, sandy, it's only making it better. danny, is this the end? of course not. it's only the beginning. this is the main brain, vince fontaine. beginning your day with the only way... music, music, music. get out of bed, it's the first day of school. don't be a slob, don't get a job. go back to class, you can pass. and to start the day off nice and fine, i'm gonna play a new old favorite of mine. ♪ i solve my problems and i see the light ♪ ♪ we got a loving thing ♪ ♪ we got to feed it right ♪ ♪ there ain't no danger we can go too far ♪ ♪ we start believing now that we can be who we are ♪ ♪ grease is the word ♪ ♪ they think our love is just a growing pain ♪ ♪ why don't they understand? ♪ ♪ it's just a crying shame ♪ ♪ their lips are lying, only real is real ♪ ♪ we stop the fight right now ♪ ♪ we got to be what we feel ♪ ♪ grease is the word ♪ ♪ is the word, is the word that you heard ♪ ♪ it's got groove, it's got meaning ♪ ♪ grease is the time ♪ ♪ is the place, is the motion ♪ ♪ grease is the way we are feeling ♪ ♪ we take the pressure and we throw away ♪ ♪ conventionality belongs to yesterday ♪ ♪ there is a chance that we can make it so far ♪ ♪ we start believing now that we can be who we are ♪ ♪ grease is the word ♪ ♪ is the word, is the word that you heard ♪ ♪ it's got groove, it's got meaning ♪ ♪ grease is the time ♪ ♪ is the place, is the motion ♪ ♪ now grease is the way we are feeling ♪ ♪ this is a life of illusion ♪ ♪ wrapped up in troubles ♪ ♪ laced in confusion ♪ ♪ what are we doing here ♪ ♪ we take the pressure and we throw away ♪ ♪ conventionality belongs to yesterday ♪ ♪ there is a chance that we can make it so far ♪ ♪ we start believing now that we can be who we are ♪ ♪ grease is the word ♪ ♪ is the word is the word that you heard ♪ ♪ it's got groove, it's got meaning ♪ ♪ grease is the time ♪ ♪ is the place, is the motion ♪ ♪ grease is the way we are feeling ♪ ♪ grease is the word is the word that you've heard ♪ ♪ it's got groove, it's got meaning ♪ ♪ grease is the time ♪ ♪ is the place, is the motion ♪ ♪ now grease is the way we are feeling ♪ ♪ grease is the word is the word, is the word ♪ you're not supposed to eat this, you're supposed to bury it. hey, that's a homemade lunch. old lady drag her carcass out of bed for you? sure, putzie. she does it every year on the first day of school. big deal. - kenickie! over here, kenickie. - kenickie. - hey, where you at? - we're right here. - where were you all summer? - what are you, my mother? i'm just asking. i was working, which is more than any of youse kids can say. - working? - that's right. i was lugging boxes at bargain city, moron. - nice job. - eat me. - i'm saving up to get me some wheels. - yeah? - you wanna hear what i did? - no. hey, there's danny! - hey, danny! - danny! danny! - hey, hey! - how you doing, huh? hey, danny! hey, you seen any new broads over there? nah, just the same old chicks everybody's made it with. hey, so what'd you do all summer, danny, huh? i was hanging around down the beach, you know. you know. i know what you mean, it's tough with all those chicks hanging around you. yeah, well, the only thing that hangs around you, sonny, are the flies. hey, right here, putzie, huh? hey, how was the action at the beach, man? ooh! ooh! - it was flipping. - yeah? crazy? i did meet this one chick. she was sort of cool, you know. you mean she puts out? oh, come on, sonny, is that all you ever think about? freaking a! hey, guys, wait up. do i look okay, frenchy? - sure, you look good. - i'm really nervous, you know. - you look terrific. - so, this is rydell? yep, you'll love it. i loved the last school i was at. i wish i was there right now. still, i'm no stranger to heartbreak. why? you got psoriasis? oh, god. well, here we are again. yeah, but this time we're seniors. and we're gonna rule the school. - jan, that is so adolescent. - we are adolescent. we don't have to flaunt it. okay, girls. let's go get 'em. blanche, do you have the new schedules? yes, miss mcgee, i just had my hands on them. oh, good, they'll be nice and smudged. oh, here we are. if it had been a snake, it would've bitten me. blanche, these are the schedules we couldn't find for last semester. now, maybe next year, you'll find the ones for this semester. i've got kenickie again. he's been here longer than i have. it's the first day of school and already my castor oil is missing. how many days till christmas vacation? - eighty-six. - eighty-six? - i'm counting. - oh. - may i help you, dear? - oh, yes, this is my first day of school. i'm not really sure where i'm supposed to be. oh, well, welcome to rydell. you'll have to fill out a few of these forms, but... will you excuse me for a minute? i'll be right back. oh, excuse me, do you have a pencil, please? oh, yes, dear. there you are. jeez. every teacher i got this year has flunked me at least once. if you don't watch it, you're gonna be spending all your time in mcgee's office. yeah, well, this year she's gonna wish she'd never seen me. oh, yeah? and what are you gonna do? i just ain't gonna take any of her crap. that's all, i don't take no crap from nobody. - sonny? - oh, hello, ma'am. aren't you supposed to be in homeroom right now? i was just going for a walk. - you were just dawdling, weren't you? - yes, ma'am. that is no way to start a new semester, mr. latierri. perhaps a session of banging erasers after school would put you on the right track. yes, ma'am. are you just going to stand there all day? no, ma'am. i mean, yes, ma'am. i mean, i'm just... - well, which is it, yes or no? - no, ma'am. - good. then move. - yes, ma'am. i'm sure glad you didn't take any of her crap, sonny. you would've really told her off, huh? "mr. latierri. yes, ma'am, no, ma'am." - hey, eugene. - how you doing? shake, buddy. hey, what's wrong? you're wearing glasses. - i got astigmatism. - oh, too bad. come on, let's go. ♪ as i go travelling down life's highway ♪ ♪ whatever course my fortunes may foretell ♪ good morning, boys and girls, and welcome to what we're sure will be our greatest year at rydell. saturday night will be our first pep rally and bonfire, and i want to see all of you students out there with plenty of support for coach calhoun and the rydell rangers. if you can't be an athlete, be an athletic supporter. and now for the really good news and probably one of the most exciting things to ever happen at rydell high. the national bandstand television show has selected rydell as a representative american high school and will do a live broadcast from our very own gym. it is our chance to show the entire nation what fine, bright, clean-cut, wholesome students we have here at rydell. hey, did you guys get a look at zuko this morning? looking pretty good this year, huh, rizz? that's ancient history. well, history sometimes repeats itself. - hey, you guys. - hi, frenchy. - hi, french. - go sit down. this here is sandy olsson. and that's jan and marty, and this here's rizzo. she just moved here from sydney, australia. how are things down under? oh, fine, thanks. - hey, marty, are those new glasses? - oh, yeah, just got them for school. don't you think they make me look smarter? nah, you can still see your face. how do you like school so far, sandy? - it's different. - hi, kids. patty simcox, the bad seed of rydell high. hi! oh, i just love the first day of school, don't you? it's the biggest thrill of my life. oh, you'll never guess what's happened. probably not. they just announced the nominees for student council and guess who's up for vice president? - who? - me. isn't that the most? - to say the least. - the very least. i just hope i don't make too poor a showing. well, we certainly wish you the best of luck, don't we, girls? yeah, sure. i've got my fingers crossed. - thank you. - here. oh, you must think i'm a terrible clod for not introducing myself to your friend. hi, i'm patty simcox. welcome to rydell. well, i hope you'll be at cheerleader tryouts. we'll have so much fun and get to be lifelong friends. you guys, how do you like sandy, huh? do you think we could let her in the pink ladies? she looks too pure to be pink. oh, double doo-doo! - please. - what's up, doc? one of my diamonds just fell in the macaroni. hey, kenickie, you want a piece of salami? are you kidding? if i eat that, i'll smell like you. what a stink! hey, guys. guys, look. ladies and gentlemen, dingleberries on parade! yeah. hey, look! you really put your foot into it this time, chisum. try hopscotch, you hot dog! - what a gavone. - gumdrops, man. hey, any of you guys see that new chick at registration? oh, she sure beats the foam domes around here. you mean her jugs were bigger than annette's? nobody's jugs are bigger than annette's. right. hey, guys. hey! hi, girls. - you're a sick man, putz. - hey! hey, i wanna hear about what danny did at the beach. - yeah. - yeah. nah, it was nothing. - sure, nothing, zuko. right? - come on, danny. you got in her drawers, right? yeah, come on, come on. tell us about that girl. what'd you do this summer, sandy? oh, i spent most of it at the beach. i met a boy there. hauled your cookies all the way to the beach for some guy? well, he was sort of special. there ain't no such thing. he was really romantic. - everything about it. - come on, man. come on, you don't want to hear all the horny details. are you kidding me! all right! i'll tell you. ♪ summer lovin' had me a blast ♪ ♪ summer lovin' happened so fast ♪ ♪ i met a girl crazy for me ♪ ♪ met a boy cute as can be ♪ ♪ summer days drifting away ♪ ♪ to uh-oh those summer nights ♪ ♪ well-a well-a well-a huh! ♪ ♪ tell me more, tell me more ♪ ♪ did ya get very far? ♪ ♪ tell me more, tell me more ♪ ♪ like does he have a car? ♪ ♪ uh-huh, uh-huh, uh-huh, doo-doo doo-doo-doo ♪ ♪ she swam by me, she got a cramp ♪ ♪ he ran by me, got my suit damp ♪ ♪ i saved her life, she nearly drowned ♪ ♪ he showed off, splashing around ♪ ♪ summer sun, something's begun ♪ ♪ but uh-oh those summer nights ♪ ♪ well-a well-a well-a huh! ♪ ♪ tell me more, tell me more ♪ ♪ was it love at first sight? ♪ ♪ tell me more, tell me more ♪ ♪ did she put up a fight? ♪ ♪ dam, doo-bee-doo, doo-bee-doo, doo-bee-doo-bee-doo-bee ♪ ♪ dam, doo-bee-doo, doo-bee-doo, doo-bee-doo-bee-doo-bee-dam ♪ ♪ took her bowling in the arcade ♪ ♪ we went strolling, drank lemonade ♪ ♪ we made out under the dock ♪ ♪ we stayed out till ten o'clock ♪ ♪ summer fling, don't mean a thing ♪ ♪ but uh-oh those summer nights ♪ ♪ tell me more, tell me more ♪ ♪ but ya don't gotta brag ♪ ♪ tell me more, tell me more ♪ ♪ 'cause he sounds like a drag ♪ shoo-bop-bop, shoo-bop-bop, shoo-bop-bop, shoo-bop-bop ♪ ♪ shoo-bop-bop, shoo-bop-bop, shoo-bop-bop ♪ ♪ yeah ♪ ♪ he got friendly holding my hand ♪ ♪ she got friendly down in the sand ♪ ♪ he was sweet, just turned eighteen ♪ ♪ well, she was good ♪ ♪ ya know what i mean ♪ ♪ summer heat, boy and girl meet ♪ ♪ but uh-oh those summer nights ♪ ♪ tell me more, tell me more ♪ ♪ how much dough did he spend? ♪ ♪ tell me more, tell me more ♪ ♪ could she get me a friend? ♪ ♪ it turned colder ♪ ♪ that's where it ends ♪ ♪ so i told her we'd still be friends ♪ ♪ then we made our true love vow ♪ ♪ wonder what she's doing now ♪ ♪ summer dreams ♪ ♪ ripped at the seams ♪ ♪ but uh-oh ♪ ♪ those summer ♪ ♪ nights ♪ ♪ tell me more, tell me more ♪ he sounds real nice. true love and he didn't lay a hand on you? sounds like a creep to me. well, he wasn't. he was a gentleman. hey, what was his name? danny. danny zuko. well, i think he sounds peachy keen. well, maybe, if you believe in miracles, prince charming will show up again someday. somewhere unexpected. see you later. come on, girls. do you really think so, frenchy? - sure. - yeah? sandy, i think we ought to get to class. do the splits, give a yell! show a little spirit for old rydell! way to go, red and white! go rydell, fight, fight, fight! and now... quiet, please. quiet, everyone. and now, boys and girls, the man of the hour. the coach we're all depending on to pull rydell out of the seven-season slump, our very own coach calhoun. who's the best? rydell! give them hell, rydell! i just wanna tell you students that we have a banner year coming up, a banner year. because my boys are primed. i mean really primed because i primed them. i mean, they're not only primed, they're honed. honed to a sharp razor-edge. and we're not just going out there to win, we're going out there for glory. when we get out there, we're gonna yank them and tear them and rip them! we're gonna take them and roll them around and rip them up to pieces! and then we're gonna slaughter them. and after the slaughter is over, we're gonna come back here and ring that victory bell. like we always wanted to. doody! doody! hey, dan, watch this. do a split, give a yell, shake a tit for old rydell! guys. be cool, huh? hey, watch out, pinhead. well, what do you think? what a hunk of junk. wait till i give it a paint job and soup up the engine, man. she's gonna run like a champ. i'm racing her at thunder road. thunder road? yeah. you wanna make something of it? i wanna see you make something of this heap. you're cruising for a bruising. hey, what're the scorpions doing here? this ain't their turf. think they wanna rumble? yeah, if they do, we're gonna be ready for them. all right, gang! let's go get them! hey, chick. what you doing? - oh, thanks, frenchy. - that's all right. you know something? you were really great out there. no, i really messed up, i was so nervous. oh, no. your split was divoon. - hi, sandy. - oh, hi, rizz. hi, girls. - we got a surprise for you. - surprise? what is it? you'll see. right, rizz? hey, just let me comb your hair down a little bit here. where are we going? want a little lipstick? you know, if we fix up this car, it could be make-out city, you know that? right, a chick is gonna have to put out before she even gets in. you'd better believe it, man. hey, zuko. i got a surprise for you. oh, yeah? yeah. sandy! danny? what are you doing here? i thought you were going back to australia. we had a change of plan. i can't... that's cool, baby. i mean, you know how it is. rocking and rolling and whatnot. - danny? - that's my name, don't wear it out. what's the matter with you? what's the matter with me, baby? what's the matter with you? what happened to the danny zuko i met at the beach? well, i do not know. i mean, maybe there's two of us, right? why don't you take out a missing-persons ad, or try the yellow pages? i don't know. you're a fake and a phoney and i wish i'd never laid eyes on you. - i wonder if she carries silver bullets. - yeah. so she laid her eyes on you, huh, zuko? hey, i bet that's not all she's laid on him. - yeah, right. - hey, zuke! i got a car, remember? - come on, danny. - all right, who's got beer money? - well, i swiped my brother's id. - i got $2.50. all right, give me that. he was so nice to me this summer. listen, sandy, men are rats. listen to me. they're fleas on rats. worse than that, they're amoebas on fleas on rats. i mean, they're too low for even the dogs to bite. the only man a girl can depend on is her daddy. - you know what you need? - what? a night out with the girls. huh? we're having a sleepover at my house tonight. wanna come? good. you'll love it. come on. hey, look, it's jan. ♪ brush-a, brush-a, brush-a get the new ipana ♪ ♪ with the brand-new flavor it's dandy for your teeth ♪ ♪ brush-a, brush-a, brush-a new ipana toothpaste ♪ ♪ brush-a, brush-a, brush-a knocks out decay germs fast ♪ ♪ fast, fast, you sure are right ♪ turn it off. - hey. hey, hand me a ciggie butt. - oh, me, too. over here. - hey, you want one, sandy? - no, thanks, i don't smoke. - you don't? - go ahead, try it. it won't kill you. give her a hit parade. oh, i forgot to tell you, you shouldn't inhale unless you're used to it. sandy, let me teach you how to french inhale. it's really cool, watch. god! that is the ugliest looking thing i ever saw. nah, the guys really go for it. and that's how i got my nickname, "frenchy". sure it is. - oh. - okay. okay, how about a little sneaky pete to get the party going? italian swiss colony? wow, it's imported. hey, i brought some twinkies. anybody want one? twinkies and wine? oh, that's real class, jan. it says right here it is a dessert wine. hey, sandy didn't get any wine. oh, that's okay. i bet you never had a drink before either. oh, yes, i did. i had some champagne at my cousin's wedding once. ring-a-ding-ding! what's wrong? we don't got cooties. hey, sandy, would you like me to pierce your ears for you? shut up! - quiet. - isn't that awfully dangerous? oh, no. i know what i'm doing. i'm gonna be a beautician, you know. - what's the matter? you afraid? - no, i'm not. here, frenchy, you can use my virgin pin. yeah, it's nice to know it's good for something. - it's perfect. - frenchy, i really don't think it's a good idea. - oh, no, it's okay. listen... - my father won't like it. i promise you... ow! sandy, why don't we go into the bathroom? my mother'll kill me if i get blood all over the carpet. - what? - it only bleeds for a second. frenchy, i don't feel very well. don't worry about it, sandy. if she screws up, she can always fix your hair so your ears don't show. sandy, sandy, beauty is pain. could you please get me some ice to numb her ear lobes? why don't you just let the cold water run and stick her ear under the faucet? oh. personally, i'm getting rather chilly. - hey, what's that? - from bobby in korea. - are you going with a korean? - dummy, he's a marine. - a marine? - a marine? wanna see a picture? god. you're turning into a one-woman uso. hey, you guys, sandy's sick. i just did one ear. she saw the blood and... you ain't getting your hands on my ears. oh, yeah? well, you'll be sorry because i have been accepted to la cafury beauty school. you mean you're dropping out of rydell? hey, i don't look at it as dropping out. i look at it as a very strategic career move. - why's it torn in half? - his old girlfriend was in the picture. sandy, here's your toothbrush. oh, thanks, frenchy. i'm sorry to be so much trouble. it's okay. miss goody two-shoes makes me wanna barf. ♪ look at me, i'm sandra dee ♪ ♪ lousy with virginity ♪ ♪ won't go to bed till i'm legally wed ♪ ♪ i can't, i'm sandra dee ♪ watch it! ♪ hey, i'm doris day ♪ ♪ i was not brought up that way ♪ ♪ won't come across ♪ ♪ even rock hudson lost ♪ ♪ his heart to doris day ay-ay ♪ - ♪ i don't drink ♪ - no! 508.5 - ♪ or swear ♪ - oh! - ♪ i don't rat my hair ♪ - ewww! ♪ i get ill from one cigarette ♪ ♪ keep your filthy paws off my silky drawers! ♪ ♪ would you pull that crap with annette? ♪ ♪ as for you, troy donahue ♪ ♪ i know what you wanna do ♪ ♪ you got your crust ♪ ♪ i'm no object of lust ♪ i'm just plain sandra dee ♪ ♪ elvis! elvis! let me be ♪ ♪ keep that pelvis far from me ♪ ♪ just keep your cool ♪ ♪ now you're starting to drool ♪ ♪ hey, fongool ♪ ♪ i'm sandra dee ♪ you're making fun of me, rizz? some people are so touchy. ♪ 'cause when the wind was blowing my way ♪ ♪ it smelled just like the halls of old rydell ♪ ♪ and if you got to use a toilet ♪ ♪ and later on they start to scratch like hell ♪ will you shut up, you vultures? hey, i changed my mind. let's get out of here. - hey, what do you mean? - what do you mean, what do i mean? they can't come in here. my folks'll flip. - hey, putzie, why don't you call her? - come on. let's get out of here. "oh, sandy. wherefore art thou, sandy?" - shut up! sit down. - come on, let's go. you goody-goodies are too much for me. i'm gonna get my kicks while i'm still young enough to get them. what's she gonna do, shimmy down the drainpipe? hey, look. there's rizzo. hey, rizzo, you're doing that without a net. swell bunch you are, rushing to help a lady. - lady? i don't see a lady. - shut up. shut up! - what's up, kenick? - one guess. - you got a lot to offer a girl. - yeah, you know it. what say you, zuke? you're looking good, rizz. - eat your heart out. - well, sloppy seconds ain't my style. where are you going? to flog your log? well, it's better than hanging around with you dorks. - hey, danny! - hey, danny! your chariot, my lady. i don't know what i ever saw in danny zuko. don't sweat it, honey. have one of mine. - there's so many of them. - i know. - how do you keep up with all of them? - i'm a terrific pen pal. hopelessly devoted to each and every one. - hey, what are you doing? - okay. so what do you guys think this is, a gangbang? you wish. - hey, hit the pavement. - you got to be kidding. - i said now! - all right, all right. - move it! - remember us in your will. - your will, all right. - come here. when a guy picks a chick over his buddies, something got to be wrong. you said it. come on, guys, let's go for a slice of pizza. can i have some of that? sure. - thanks. - wait. ♪ guess mine is not the first heart broken ♪ ♪ my eyes are not the first to cry ♪ ♪ i'm not the first to know ♪ ♪ there's just no getting over you ♪ ♪ you know i'm just a fool who's willing ♪ ♪ to sit around and wait for you ♪ ♪ but, baby, can't you see ♪ ♪ there's nothing else for me to do? ♪ ♪ i'm hopelessly devoted to you ♪ ♪ but now there's no where to hide ♪ ♪ since you pushed my love aside ♪ ♪ i'm out of my head ♪ ♪ hopelessly devoted to you ♪ ♪ my head is saying, "fool, forget him" ♪ ♪ my heart is saying, "don't let go" ♪ ♪ "hold on to the end" ♪ ♪ and that's what i intend to do ♪ ♪ i'm hopelessly devoted to you ♪ ♪ but now there's nowhere to hide ♪ ♪ since you pushed my love aside ♪ ♪ i'm out of my head ♪ ♪ hopelessly devoted to you ♪ is acne ruining your life? do you close your eyes when you look in the mirror? fear no more. face up to face-off, for deep penetration into infected pores. help dry up the unsightly pimples and blemishes... - rizz. rizz. - could you call me by my first name? - oh... - betty. - betty. - betty. betty. betty. oh, betty. betty. betty. have you got something? are you kidding? - my 25 cent insurance policy. - big spender. - what? - it broke. how could it break? i bought it when i was in the seventh grade. what the hell? hey, what the hell you think you're doing? you parked in a no-parking zone, creep. the whole place is a no-parking zone, crater-face. - oh, yeah? - yeah! you're gonna pay for that. yeah, well, i'll give you 75 cents for the whole car, including your chick. we just got to bang out the dent, that's all there is to it. the problem isn't in the dent, the problem's in this rubber-band engine. the problem's in your mouth. yeah, and where you gonna get a new carburetor, huh? - you ever heard of borrowing? - kenickie, you got any scotch tape? hey, big stuff. what do you drive, huh? - i drive. - yeah? how about you? - who, me? - yeah. well, what about doody? - well, hey, i... - that's what i thought. now come on, guys. now, this car could be a major piece of machinery, you know that? look at this. why, this car could be systematic. hydromatic. ultramatic. why, it could be greased lightning. greased lightnin'! ♪ we'll get some overhead lifters and four barrel quads, oh, yeah ♪ ♪ keep talkin', whoa, keep talking ♪ ♪ with fuel injection cut-off and chrome plated rods, oh, yeah ♪ ♪ we'll get it ready, i'll kill to get it ready ♪ ♪ with a four-speed on the floor they'll be waitin' at the door ♪ ♪ you know that ain't no shit ♪ ♪ we'll be getting lots of tit in greased lightnin' ♪ ♪ go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go go, go, go ♪ ♪ go, greased lightnin' you're burnin' up the quarter mile ♪ ♪ greased lightnin' go, greased lightnin' ♪ ♪ go, greased lightnin', you're coastin' through the heat lap trial ♪ ♪ greased lightnin' go, greased lightnin' ♪ ♪ you are supreme ♪ ♪ the chicks'll cream for greased lightnin' ♪ ♪ go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go go, go, go ♪ ♪ we'll get some purple french taillights and 30 inch fins, oh, yeah ♪ ♪ a palomino dashboard and dual muffler twins, oh, yeah ♪ ♪ with new pistons, plugs and shocks i can get off my rocks ♪ ♪ you know that i ain't braggin' ♪ ♪ she's a real pussy wagon greased lightnin' ♪ ♪ go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go go, go, go ♪ ♪ go, greased lightnin' you're burnin' up the quarter mile ♪ ♪ greased lightnin' go, greased lightnin' ♪ ♪ go, greased lightnin', you're coastin' through the heat lap trial ♪ ♪ greased lightnin' go, greased lightnin' ♪ ♪ you are supreme ♪ ♪ the chicks'll cream for greased lightnin' ♪ ♪ go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go go, go, go ♪ ♪ go, greased lightnin' you're burnin' up the quarter mile ♪ ♪ greased lightnin' go, greased lightnin' ♪ ♪ go, greased lightnin', you're coastin' through the heat lap trial ♪ ♪ greased lightnin' go, greased lightnin' ♪ ♪ you are supreme ♪ ♪ the chicks'll cream for greased lightnin' ♪ ♪ lightnin', lightnin', lightnin', lightnin' ♪ ♪ lightnin' ♪ - come on, guys. let's get to work. - yeah. hey, zuke, man. those scorpions, they're asking for it. danny, what's up? you still thinking about that chick? - what are you, nuts? - well, no. i was just thinking. - get in there. don't think so much. - no, that's cool, that's cool. hey, guys. - hey, kenickie, zuko. - how's it hanging, huh? okay, the meeting is in session. - you know what i heard? - what? last year the fuzz had thunder road staked out, and everybody got hauled to the clink. so? nobody's gonna catch greased lightning. - yeah? - yeah. somebody snaking you, danny? - oh, bite the weenie, rizz. - with relish. - i don't know about these chicks. - yeah, they're only good for one thing. then what are you supposed to do with them for the other 23 hours and 45 minutes of the day? is that all it only takes, 15 minutes? - want some new music? - yeah. i need some money. thanks. - i'll be right back. - okay. hi, danny! - i can't talk to you right now. - listen, what are you doing later? - i can't talk, all right? - call me. - hi, sandy. - oh, hi. - how are you? - fine, thanks. that's good. hey, sandy, i've been wanting to talk to you for a long time now. - what about? - well, about that night at the bonfire. i mean, the way i acted, that was terrible. i mean, it really was. i mean, it wasn't me, you got to know that. i mean, it was me, of course, but it wasn't me. you see, sandy, i got this image, right? i got this... well, that's why i'm so glad that tom's such a simple person. simple's right. too bad his brains are in his biceps. jealous, are you? jealous? oh, come on, sandy, don't make me laugh. ha, ha, ha! and what have you ever done? oh, come on! i can run circles around those jerks. i'll believe that when i see it. let's start with the first rule. cut it down to two packs a day, huh? there we go. now, what sort of athletics are you interested in, huh? you like the rings? yeah, i installed a set of rings just a couple of weeks ago. well, the first thing we have to do is you have to change. well, i know. that's why i'm here, you know, to change. - no, i mean your clothes. - oh. all right, let's knock it off. fellows, i wanna introduce a new man. danny. let's give him a tryout, huh? you better watch it. all right, come on, come on, come on. a little fire, come on, here we go. - come on, come on. - hey, danny. you have to dribble. - here you go, coach. - thank you, son. now, just dribble the ball, put it in the basket. - think you can do that? - can i do that! - okay. - let's go. danny, over here. danny! let's go. - come on, arnold. - come on, get it up. get it up there. hey, that's it. go, go, go. get him, danny. get him. there we are. go, go. get him. that's it. that's it. that's it. what'd i do? - is he kidding? - boy, oh, boy. i want you to meet your wrestling partner. danny, andy. - are you crazy? - come on, come on, come on. all right, come on, let's start. let's get into first position. danny, you get down. okay, andy, get down. ready? okay? hold it, hold it, hold it. danny, you gotta try. you gotta try. try, come on. come on, let's get down. all right, andy, let's change positions. you get down. come on. all right. ready? - give? - yeah, i give. good. he's a hitter. i think you're gonna like baseball. it's not that much of a contact sport. now, get in there and let's see what you can do, all right? throw the ball. come on. let's play. hey, where would you like it, huh? come on, man. let's pitch this guy out here. - he can't hit. - this boy can't even bat. - strike. - see? i told you. he doesn't even swing. what kind of ball player are you? come on. put it in here, pitcher. strike. come on, a little pepper, a little fire. come on, a little fire in there. come on, come on. let's see you hit it. put it in, put it in, put it in. foul ball. - easy, easy, easy. - now! come on! come on! put the bat down. put the bat down! now, there's a lot of other sports that don't have any contact at all. - oh, yeah, like what? - like track. - what do you mean, running? - what, you mean just like running? i mean something that needs endurance. something that needs stamina. like, long-distance running. cross-country running. - that could be cool. - good. hey, cut it. come on, keep those legs high. take 10 laps. danny. danny, are you all right? danny, talk to me. the least you can do is talk to me after the way you treated me. the way i treated... sandy, i told you i was sorry about that. got you talking. - you sure you're okay? - yes, i'm fine. - so, still going out with that jockstrap? - well... - well, is he taking you to the dance? - well, that all depends. - on what? - on you. - on me? - yeah. he can stag it. come on. sandy, come on, let's go someplace else tonight. why? because we can't be alone here, that's why. danny. okay. two burgers and a moo-juice, coming up. you nearly pulled my arm out of the socket. well, i didn't want to miss this table. it's the best table they got. what are you doing? i just want a little privacy for us, all right? - what'll it be, kids? - oh, a cherry soda, please. - danny? - oh, i'm not very hungry. just give me a double polar burger with everything and a cherry soda with chocolate ice cream. that sounds good. i'll have the same. the same? you can eat a lot, can't you? - you know, you're funny. - no, you are. how you doing, zuke, huh? nice? golden glooms. - hi, rizzo. how are you? - peachy keen, jelly bean. hey, you got a couple of quarters? we can split an eskimo pie. - my dutch treat days are over. - you plan on staying home a lot. hey, greetings, pals and gals. hey, i got 23 cents. anybody wanna chip in for a dog-sled delight? i don't know where all my money goes. a dime here, 15 cents there. yeah, well, in another couple of months, frenchy here will be able to take us all out. huh? - a working girl with income. - hey, that's right. well, you know, they don't pay you very much to start off with. yeah, well, that's still more than we make. so ante up because i don't get my allowance until friday. - what? you get an allowance? - when i'm a good boy i do. hey, viola, a dog-sled delight with four spoons. - and an eskimo pie with a knife. - hi, gang. here you are. grab it and growl. i got so many hickeys people will think i'm a leper. hey, cheer up. a hickey from kenickie is like a hallmark card. "when you care enough to send the very best." you pig. i love it when you talk dirty. my parents want to invite you over to tea on sunday. do you wanna come? - i don't like tea. - you don't have to drink tea. well, i don't like parents. want some? you sure are a cheap date. oh, i didn't mean it the way it came out. i understand. i always thought you were a very understanding person. i am. and i also think that there's more to you than just fat. thanks. you're welcome. - you got a date for the dance-off? - no. - wanna go? - yeah. oh, no, i'm gonna be a senior forever if i don't study for that dumb algebra test tomorrow. hey, you're in luck, luscious. you got an armed escort home. it's not the arms i'm worried about, sonny. it's the hands. she loves me. - hey, you coming, french? - oh, i don't think so. i think i'd like to hang out a little bit longer. all right. i have been dieting all day long. my mom's apple pie is better than this stuff. - do you want a piece? - yeah, sure. - hey, putzie. - yeah? fifteen minutes. you know, danny, i'm kind of worried about this dance-off. maybe they dance differently than we do back home. don't worry about it. maybe we'll invent the kangaroo bop. come on, let's get out of here, sandy. zuko, see you later, okay. - bye, frenchy. - see you, sandy. great. i get stuck with the check again. give me money. okay, what is it, huh? what's with you tonight? you've got the personality of a wet mop. don't start with me. oh, sure, fine. okay, eureka. how about i finish with you, huh? finish this! to you from me, pinky lee. sorry, french. rizzo! hey, rizzo! i wanna talk to you! now! no use crying over spilled milkshake. oh, i'll be okay. you know it's near closing time, don't you? do you mind if i stay around a little longer, vi? no, suit yourself. - wow. - what? well, i hate to tell you this but your hair looks like an easter egg. oh, yeah. well, i had a little trouble in tinting class. in fact, i had a little trouble in all my classes. beauty school sure wasn't what i thought it was gonna be. oh, nothing ever is. vi? i dropped out. what do you think of waitressing? you're too young to know. hey, maybe i could be a telephone operator. nah, i don't think i would like to wear those little things over my ears. god, if only i could have a guardian angel to tell me what to do. you know, like debbie reynolds had in tammy what do you think? if you find him, give him my phone number. ♪ your story's sad to tell ♪ ♪ a teenage ne'er-do-well ♪ ♪ most mixed-up non-delinquent on the block ♪ ♪ your future's so unclear now ♪ ♪ what's left of your career now? ♪ ♪ can't even get a trade in ♪ ♪ on your smock ♪ ♪ beauty school dropout ♪ ♪ no graduation day for you ♪ ♪ beauty school dropout ♪ ♪ missed your midterms and flunked shampoo ♪ ♪ well, at least you could have taken time ♪ ♪ to wash and clean your clothes up ♪ ♪ after spending all that dough ♪ ♪ to have the doctor fix your nose up ♪ ♪ baby, get movin' ♪ ♪ why keep your feeble hopes alive? ♪ ♪ what are you provin'? ♪ ♪ you've got the dream but not the drive ♪ ♪ if you go for your diploma ♪ ♪ you could join a steno pool ♪ ♪ turn in your teasing comb ♪ ♪ and go back to high school ♪ ♪ beauty school dropout ♪ ♪ hangin' around the corner store ♪ ♪ beauty school dropout ♪ ♪ it's about time you knew the score ♪ ♪ well, they couldn't teach you anything ♪ ♪ you think you're such a looker ♪ ♪ but no customer would go to you ♪ ♪ unless she was a hooker ♪ ♪ baby, don't sweat it ♪ ♪ don't sweat it ♪ ♪ you're not cut out to hold a job ♪ ♪ better forget it ♪ ♪ forget it ♪ ♪ who wants their hair done by a slob? ♪ ♪ now your bangs are curled your lashes twirled ♪ ♪ but still the world is cruel ♪ ♪ wipe off that angel face ♪ ♪ and go back to high school ♪ ♪ baby, don't blow it ♪ ♪ don't put my good advice to shame ♪ ♪ baby, you know it ♪ ♪ even dear abby'd say the same ♪ ♪ now, i've called the shot ♪ ♪ get off the pot ♪ ♪ really gotta fly ♪ ♪ gotta be goin' ♪ ♪ to that malt shop ♪ ♪ in the sky ♪ ♪ beauty school dropout beauty school dropout ♪ ♪ go back to high school ♪ ♪ - beauty school dropout - beauty school dropout ♪ ♪ go back to high school ♪ ♪ - beauty school dropout - beauty school dropout ♪ ♪ go back to high school ♪ - just lower your head, kenickie. - what are you doing? come on, kenickie. give him a break, huh? - oh, i'll give you a break all right. - no, we'll work on the brakes later. move over, slick. - hey, fruitcake, you got it on backwards. - all right. what kind of car did you swipe this from anyway? - your mother's. - your mother's. hey, charlie, don't forget the other cable, huh? there's a ramp set up at the service door for that camera. rizz. can you believe it? we'll be on nationwide television. - how you doing? - you still gonna go to the dance? man, i'm gonna have the hottest date there. biggest thing that ever happened to rydell high and we don't have dates. what about rudie from the capri lounge? - get serious. - it's a suggestion. well, i already called him. relax, i think our luck is changing. do you know what you're doing? what we're doing. come on. hey, marty, you're looking good. would you just excuse me one second? you're feeling good, too, huh? sonny, there he is. look, that's vince fontaine. yeah, i've seen better heads on a mug of beer. would you grow up? he's the living end. yeah, if you like older guys. danny, this is so exciting. yeah, well, you see what you gotta do is make friends with the cameraman. - you know the cameraman? - yeah, his name's ted. doody, how do i look? like a beautiful blonde pineapple. that's good. that's good. you're late, fellows. where you been, huh? - boy, the gym never looked so good. - yeah, did you bring the provisions? all right, kids. i want a big circle here, a big circle. come on, boys and girls, we are going on the air very shortly. but first, let's have some warm-up numbers with johnny casino and the gamblers. ♪ oh, baby, rock 'n' roll is here to stay, it will never die ♪ 994.04 ♪ it was meant to be that way, though i don't know why ♪ 994.06 ♪ i don't care what people say rock 'n' roll is here to stay ♪ 994.08 ♪ we don't care what people say rock 'n' roll is here to stay ♪ 994.10 ♪ everybody rock, everybody rock ♪ 994.12 ♪ everybody rock, everybody rock ♪ 994.14 ♪ come on ♪ 994.16 ♪ everybody rock ♪ 994.18 ♪ if you don't like rock 'n' roll, think what you'd be missin' ♪ 994.20 ♪ if you like to bop and stroll, come on down and listen ♪ 994.22 ♪ let's all start to have a ball ♪ 994.24 ♪ everybody rock 'n' roll ♪ - what are their names? - fred and ginger. - fred and ginger. - but... go tell him the truth. i hope i don't get camera fright. oh, don't worry about it. we're gonna be cool, all right? - yeah? - don't worry? good. come on, let's go. 1000.2 ♪ what's that playing on the radio? ♪ 1000.4 ♪ why do i start swaying to and fro? ♪ 1000.6 ♪ i have never heard that song before ♪ 1000.8 ♪ but if i don't hear it any more ♪ why don't you let me lead for a change? i can't help it. i'm used to leading. okay. doody, can't you turn me around or something? don't talk, french. i'm trying to count. ♪ a melody that's never the same ♪ ♪ a melody that's calling your name ♪ did you ever think about taking up singing professionally? ♪ come back to me-e-e, please ♪ hey, zuko! zuke! zuke! i want you to meet cha cha digregorio. - how you doing, zuko baby? - all right. - who is she? - they call me cha cha, 'cause i'm the best dancer at saint bernadette's. with the worst reputation. let's go, sandy. - who's that girl? - uh, she's just a girl- a girl i know, that's all. hi. i'm vince fontaine. hey, do your folks know i come into your room every night? over kzaz, that is. i'm judging the dance contest. i don't think i'm entered. a knockout like you? - what's your name? - marty. - marty what? - maraschino. you know, like in cherry. - what are you doing? - washing my hands. 1027.1 ♪ you don't remember me ♪ 1027.2 ♪ but i remember you ♪ 1027.3 ♪ it was not so long ago ♪ 1027.4 ♪ you broke my heart in two ♪ 1027.5 ♪ tears on my pillow ♪ 1027.6 ♪ pain in my heart ♪ 1027.7 ♪ caused by you, you, you, you, you ♪ how do you know her? she's just an old friend of the family, that's all. 1029.4 ♪ love is not a toy ♪ 1029.7 ♪ when you find the one you love ♪ - aren't you glad to be back? - oh, yeah. besides, blondes do have more fun. ♪ if we could start anew ♪ 1031.7 ♪ i wouldn't hesitate ♪ when i hear music, i just can't make my feet behave. - thinks she's tinker bell. - hush, sonny. 1033.3 ♪ pain in my heart ♪ 1033.5 ♪ caused by you ♪ 1033.7 ♪ you-ou-ou-ou ♪ the rydell fight song! - when you are finished. - we're finished. you will be happy to know that i am not judging the dance contest. i think we all owe a round of applause to patty simcox and eugene felsnick and committee for their beautiful decorations. let's hear it for the toilet paper! in a few moments, the entire nation will be watching rydell high. god help us! and i want you all to be on your best behavior. no heinie biting! and now, here he is, the prince of the platters, mr. vince fontaine. mr. vince fontaine! hey, it's great being here at rydell high. what's your name, sweetheart? hiya, honey. and now for the rules. game rule one. all couples must be boy-girl. yeah, too bad, eugene. all right, all right, all right. come on. game rule two. during the dance contest, if you're tapped on the shoulder, you must leave the floor immediately or else. i mean it. and rule three, anyone doing tasteless or vulgar movements will be disqualified. that leaves us out. can we keep it clean, please? let's keep it clean. - twenty seconds. - oh, twenty seconds. thank you, fans and friends and odds and ends. and now for you gals and guys, a few words to the wise. you jims and sals are my best pals, and to look your best for the big contest, just be yourselves and have a ball. that's what it's all about after all! so forget about the camera and think about the beat, we'll give the folks at home a real big treat. don't worry about where the camera is, just keep on dancing, that's your biz. hey, and if i tap your shoulder, move to the side, let the others finish the ride. ten seconds. nine, eight, seven, six, five, four, three, two, one. on the air. hello, welcome to national bandstand, coming to you live from rydell high school. this is the event you've all been waiting for, the national dance-off. and away we go with johnny casino and the gamblers. ♪ you ain't nothin' but a hound dog ♪ 1085.3 ♪ cryin' all the time ♪ 1085.4 ♪ you ain't nothin' but a hound dog ♪ 1085.6 ♪ cryin' all the time ♪ 1085.8 ♪ well, you ain't never caught a rabbit and you ain't no friend of mine ♪ look, there's the camera! - look, it's putzie and jan. - yeah. 1087.3 ♪ said you was high class, uh, now that was just a lie ♪ 1087.5 ♪ call yourself high class, that was just a lie ♪ 1087.7 ♪ well, you ain't never caught a rabbit and you ain't no friend of mine ♪ ♪ oh, there's danny and sandy. ♪ you ain't nothin' but a hound dog ♪ 1088.4 ♪ cryin' all the time ♪ 1088.6 ♪ cryin' all the time ♪ 1088.8 ♪ well, you ain't never caught a rabbit you ain't no friend of mine ♪ now to the event you've all been waiting for, the national dance-off. some lucky guy and gal is gonna go bopping home with some fantabulous prizes. but don't feel bad if i bump youse out 'cause it doesn't matter if you win or lose, it's what you do with your dancing shoes. - hey, does everybody here know marty? - yeah! okay, cats, throw your mittens around your kittens and away we go! that wasn't supposed to happen! let's go! let's hand jive! ♪ before i was born late one night ♪ ♪ my papa said, "everything's all right" ♪ ♪ the doctor made my ma lay down ♪ that guy over there with the chick in the red, throw 'em out. ♪ with her stomach bouncing all around ♪ ♪ 'cause a bebop stork was about to arrive ♪ ♪ my mom gave birth to the hand jive ♪ ♪ i could barely walk when i milked a cow ♪ ♪ when i was three, i pushed a plow ♪ ♪ while chopping wood, i'd move my legs ♪ ♪ and started dancing while i gathered eggs ♪ ♪ the townfolk clapped when i was only five ♪ ♪ i'd outdance them all, he's born to hand jive ♪ yes, move it, oh, buddy. go, go, go, go, go, go, go. shake it, shake it, shake it. shimmy, shimmy, shimmy. attagirl! ♪ oh, yeah, yeah, yeah ♪ everybody! ♪ born to hand jive, baby ♪ yeah. here we go. come on. hey, break it up, break it up! what is that? break it up! ♪ yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. ♪ come on now, shake it! yeah! twist it! all right, get it! ♪ how low can you go? ♪ 1130.4 ♪ how low can you go? ♪ 1030.7 ♪ how low can you go? ♪ no, no, don't. bad boy! not here! there you go! come on now, hand jive! that's the stuff! do it, baby! do it! that's the hand jive grand jive! yeah, now let's bring it up! bring it on up! higher! higher and higher! ♪ now can you hand jive, baby? ♪ ♪ oh, can you hand jive, baby? ♪ ♪ oh, yeah ♪ ♪ born to hand jive! oh, yeah! ♪ oh, yeah! now let's meet them. here they are, the new champs. come on. come on over here. - can i have your names, please? - cha cha digregorio and danny zuko. cha cha and danny, congratulations. come on, we're gonna do it now. - where's marty? - don't worry, she's in good hands. - whose? - i don't know. now let's see our champs in a spotlight dance. - ♪ blue moon - blue, blue, blue, blue moon ♪ ♪ you saw me standing alone ♪ ♪ without a dream in my heart ♪ ♪ without a love of my own ♪ ready? one, one, two, three, go. ♪ blue moon ♪ i wonder who that is on the right? we have pictures of you so-called mooners. and just because the pictures aren't of your faces doesn't mean we can't identify you. at this very moment, those pictures are on the way to washington where the fbi has experts in this type of identification. if you turn yourselves in now, you may escape a federal charge. come on, doody, watch your hands. putzie, move it out. i feel like a meatball in here. - okay, let's go find the chicks. - yeah. marty. marty. hold my money. don't let me go near the refreshment stand. - all right. - i'm not hungry. - i'm not hungry. - hey, what's happening? there's nobody here. oh, come on, sandy. i told you on the phone that i was sorry. - i know that you did. - well, you do believe me, don't you? well, yes, but i still think that you and cha cha went together. we did not go together, sandy. we just went together, that's all. - it's the same thing. - no. no. no. oh! oh, sandy, i'm sorry. i... sandy, would you wear my ring? oh, danny. i don't know what to say. - say "yes." - yes. oh, danny, this means so much to me, 'cause i know now that you respect me. hey, rizz? watch it. - what is with you tonight? - i feel like a defective typewriter. - huh? - i skipped a period. - you think you're pg? - i don't know. big deal. - well, was it kenickie? - nah, you don't know the guy. well, hey, rizz, look... look, rizz, it's okay. i caught vince fontaine trying to put aspirin in my coke at the dance. hey. marty, you ain't gonna tell nobody about this, right? oh, sure, rizz. look, i'll take it to the grave, okay? coming through, coming through. come on, lady with a baby. hey, marty, what's up? rizzo's pregnant. don't tell anybody. hey, rizzo's got a bun in the oven. rizzo's knocked up. rizzo, i hear you're knocked up. - you do, huh? - yeah. boy, good news really travels fast. why didn't you tell me about it? what's it to you? i thought i might be able to do something. you did enough. i don't run away from my mistakes. hey, don't worry about it, kenickie. it was somebody else's mistake. thanks a lot, kid. anytime. - oh, i hope you're not getting a cold. - oh, no. no. it's just probably a little drive-in dust, that's all. - danny! - sandy! oh, sandy. - danny, what are you doing? - oh, sandy. don't worry about it, nobody's watching. danny, get off me! sandy, what's the matter with you? i thought i meant something to you. - ugh! - meant something to you? you think i'm gonna stay here with you in this... this sin wagon? you can take this... piece of tin! sandy, you just can't walk out of a drive-in! ♪ stranded at the drive-in ♪ ♪ branded a fool ♪ ♪ what will they say ♪ ♪ monday at school? ♪ ♪ sandy, can't you see ♪ ♪ i'm in misery? ♪ ♪ we made a start ♪ ♪ now we're apart ♪ ♪ there's nothin' left for me ♪ ♪ love has flown ♪ ♪ all alone i sit and wonder why-yi-yi-yi ♪ ♪ why you left me ♪ ♪ oh, sandy ♪ ♪ baby, someday ♪ ♪ when high school is done ♪ ♪ somehow, some way ♪ ♪ our two worlds will be one ♪ ♪ in heaven forever ♪ ♪ and ever we will be ♪ ♪ oh, please, say you'll stay ♪ ♪ oh, sandy ♪ sandy, my darling you hurt me real bad you know it's true but, baby, you gotta believe me when i say i'm helpless without you ♪ love has flown ♪ ♪ all alone i sit, i wonder why-yi-yi-yi ♪ ♪ oh, why you left me ♪ ♪ oh, sandy ♪ ♪ sandy ♪ ♪ why-yi-yi-yi? ♪ oh, sandy! head it out. come on, guys. all right, pull out! pull out! pull out! well, the crate shaped up. and it's as hot as the parts on it. hey, we didn't steal all of it. some of it was donated. yeah, this baby's gonna knock them on their ears at thunder road. you're right. you could still change your mind. - the flag goes down in three hours. - and greased lightning strikes. hey, mrs. murdock, you coming? i don't expect my boys to let me down, and i won't let them down. - that's the way! - way to go, murdock! i wanna talk to you. hey, look, those guys at thunder road, they don't fool around. you know that, right? you want me to punk out? no, i'm not saying punking out, but i'm just... you know what i mean. i... hey, danny, we've been friends a long time, right? yeah. well, you remember the drive-in the other night, we went and the movie, and it was like the duel and the guy's best friend went with him and was like his lieutenant, like his second, you know? yeah. so? well, i thought that you could maybe be my second at thunder road. what do you mean? you want me to drive with you or what? no, i... oh. hey, hey. well, listen, i'll pick you up at 3:00, huh? - yeah, see you later. - yeah. hey, open up the door. what are you guys standing around for? get that can off the front of the car, you putz. oh, hello, rizz. - are you going to thunder road? - not a chance. i've got to go. i have to talk to danny. unless you got wheels and a motor, he won't know you're alive. listen, rizz, i know that we haven't been the best of friends, but if there's anything i can do... oh, i can take care of myself and anybody else who comes along. you think i don't know what people are saying about me? hey. thanks. that's the one i was telling you about. ♪ there are worse things i could do ♪ ♪ than go with a boy... or two ♪ ♪ even though the neighborhood ♪ ♪ thinks i'm trashy and no good ♪ ♪ i suppose it could be true ♪ ♪ but there are worse things i could do ♪ ♪ i could flirt with all the guys ♪ ♪ smile at them and bat my eyes ♪ ♪ press against them when we dance ♪ ♪ make them think they stand a chance ♪ ♪ then refuse to see it through ♪ ♪ that's a thing i'd never do ♪ ♪ i could stay home every night ♪ ♪ wait around for mr. right ♪ ♪ take cold showers every day ♪ ♪ and throw my life away ♪ ♪ on a dream that won't come true ♪ ♪ i could hurt someone like me ♪ ♪ out of spite or jealousy ♪ ♪ i don't steal and i don't lie ♪ ♪ but i can feel and i can cry ♪ ♪ a fact i'll bet you never knew ♪ ♪ but to cry in front of you ♪ ♪ that's the worst thing ♪ ♪ i could do ♪ so, you guys think you got a winner there, huh? that's right. yeah, well, it takes more than a coat of paint to make it at thunder road. - oh, yeah? - you guys ain't thinking about changing your mind, are you? - no way. - good, 'cause we're racing for pinks. pinks? pinks, you punk. pink slips. ownership papers. come on, zuke. come on. don't worry about it. i'll take care of it, all right? hey, get the dude, man. - what did she give him? - a lock of hair from her chest. poor kenickie. see a penny, pick it up, all day long you'll have good luck. give me that. if it were in any better condition, it would fly. yeah, well, she's gonna. here, kenickie. i brought you a little something for good luck. - gee, thanks. - oops, i'm sorry. hey, don't worry about it. don't worry, i'll get it. you putz! oh, here, put this under his head. - zuko, he's out cold. - what are we gonna do? kenickie. hey, talk to me, buddy, huh? - what? - you okay? yeah. i'm okay. i'm fine. - oh, god. - oh, you can't drive. hey, no, really, i'm all right. i'm just seeing two of you, man. hey, you want me to drive for you, huh? yeah. all right. come on, let's help him up. hey, marty, give me a hand. hey. the rules are, there ain't no rules. it's to the second bridge and back and the one who makes it here first, wins. haul ass, kid. you ain't gonna see me for dust, zuko. zuke! go! go! go! come on, baby. - all right! - congratulations! ♪ for he's a jolly good fellow, ♪ ♪ for he's a jolly good fellow, ♪ 1368.5 ♪ for he's a jolly good fell-ow, ♪ ♪ which nobody can deny ♪ ♪ look at me ♪ ♪ there has to be ♪ ♪ something more... than what they see ♪ ♪ wholesome and pure ♪ ♪ oh, so scared and unsure ♪ ♪ a poor man's sandra dee ♪ danny won! - isn't that great? - yeah. what's the matter? aren't you happy? no, not really, frenchy, but i think i know a way i could be. - could you help me? - of course. - can i come over to your place? - sure. come on. ♪ sandy, you must start anew ♪ ♪ don't you know what you must do? ♪ ♪ hold your head high ♪ ♪ take a deep breath and sigh ♪ come on, sandy. ♪ goodbye ♪ ♪ to sandra dee ♪ attention, seniors. before the merriment of commencement commences, i hope that your years with us here at rydell high have prepared you for the challenges you face. who knows, among you, there may be a future eleanor roosevelt, or a rosemary clooney. and among you young men, there may be a joe dimaggio, a president eisenhower or even a vice president nixon. but always you will have the glorious memories of rydell high. rydell forever. bon voyage. oh, blanche, stop blubbering. how many? one. i don't believe it. i don't believe it. - how can we flunk phys ed? - did i take phys ed? step right up here! it's for a wonderful cause, the teachers' retirement fund. give them a pie in the puss. coach calhoun, how could you have flunked the t-birds? don't worry, you'll get your diplomas. all you have to do is come back to summer school. summer school? look out! now see, if you'd have come to class, you wouldn't have missed me. wise guy, huh? take that! why, you couldn't even pitch one inning. - what's your name? i want you. - it's eugene. - you're a great pitcher. - oh, thank you. rizzo! hey, rizzo! get off of that thing, you got a condition. forget it. it was a false alarm. - what? - i'm not pregnant. yeah, well, i'll make an honest woman of you. listen, fella, if this is a line, i ain't biting. that's a bona fide offer. well, it ain't moonlight and roses, but... hey, there's zuko. you gotta be kidding, man! hey, what is this? halloween? where did you swipe this letterman sweater, huh? while you tools were out stealing hubcaps, i lettered in track. how do you like that? i can't believe it. danny zuko turned jock? - that's right, i did. - what you doing? deserting us? well, you guys can't follow a leader all your lives, can you? oh, come on, guys. you know you mean a lot to me. it's just that sandy does, too and i'm gonna do anything i can to get her, that's all. sandy! tell me about it... stud. ♪ i got chills ♪ ♪ they're multiplyin' ♪ ♪ and i'm losin' control ♪ ♪ 'cause the power you're supplyin' ♪ ♪ it's electrifyin' ♪ ♪ you better shape up ♪ ♪ 'cause i need a man ♪ ♪ and my heart is set on you ♪ ♪ you better shape up ♪ ♪ you better understand ♪ ♪ to my heart i must be true ♪ ♪ nothin' left, nothin' left for me to do ♪ - ♪ you're the one that i want - you are the one i want ♪ ♪ you-oo-oo, honey ♪ - ♪ the one that i want - you are the one i want ♪ ♪ you-oo-oo, honey ♪ - ♪ the one that i want - you are the one i want ♪ ♪ you-oo-oo ♪ - ♪ are what i need - what i need ♪ - ♪ oh, yes, indeed - yes, indeed ♪ ♪ if you're filled with affection ♪ ♪ you're too shy to convey ♪ ♪ meditate my direction ♪ - ♪ feel your way ♪ - wow! ♪ i better shape up ♪ - ♪ 'cause you need a man - i need a man ♪ ♪ who can keep me satisfied ♪ ♪ i better shape up ♪ - ♪ if i'm gonna prove - you better prove ♪ ♪ that my faith is justified ♪ - ♪ are you sure? - yes, i'm sure down deep inside ♪ - ♪ you're the one that i want - you are the one i want ♪ ♪ you-oo-oo, honey ♪ - ♪ the one that i want - you are the one i want ♪ ♪ you-oo-oo, honey ♪ - ♪ the one that i want - you are the one i want ♪ ♪ you-oo-oo ♪ - ♪ are what i need - what i need ♪ - ♪ oh, yes, indeed - yes, indeed ♪ - ♪ you're the one that i want - you are the one i want ♪ ♪ you-oo-oo, honey ♪ - ♪ the one that i want - you are the one i want ♪ ♪ you-oo-oo, honey ♪ - ♪ the one that i want - you are the one i want ♪ ♪ you-oo-oo ♪ - ♪ are what i need - what i need ♪ - ♪ oh, yes, indeed - yes, indeed ♪ - ♪ you're the one that i want - you are the one i want ♪ ♪ you-oo-oo, honey ♪ - ♪ the one that i want - you are the one i want ♪ ♪ you-oo-oo, honey ♪ - ♪ the one that i want - you are the one i want ♪ ♪ you-oo-oo ♪ - ♪ are what i need - what i need ♪ - ♪ oh, yes, indeed - yes, indeed ♪ - ♪ you're the one that i want - you are the one i want ♪ ♪ you-oo-oo, honey ♪ - ♪ the one that i want - you are the one i want ♪ ♪ you-oo-oo, honey ♪ - ♪ the one that i want - you are the one i want ♪ ♪ you-oo-oo ♪ - ♪ are what i need - what i need ♪ - ♪ oh, yes, indeed - yes, indeed ♪ ♪ you're the one that i want ♪ hey, everybody. rizzo and kenickie made up. all right! oh, look! oh, the gang's together. well, what are we gonna do after graduation? yeah, maybe we'll never see each other again. - no, that will never happen. - how do you know? what do you mean, "how do i know"? ♪ we go together like ra-ma la-ma la-ma ka ding-a da ding-a dong ♪ ♪ remembered forever as ♪ ♪ shoo-bop sha wad-da wad-da yip-pi-ty boom de boom ♪ ♪ chang chang chang-it... ty chang shoo-bop ♪ 1516 ♪ ♪ wha oooh, yeah ♪ ♪ we're one of a kind like ♪ ♪ dip da-dip da-dip doo-wop da doo-bee doo ♪ ♪ our names are signed ♪ ♪ boog-e-dy boog-e-dy boog-e-dy boog-e-dy shoo-by doo-wop she-bop ♪ ♪ chang chang chang-it... ty chang shoo-bop ♪ ♪ we'll always be like one ♪ ♪ wa-wa-wa-waaah ♪ ♪ when we go out at night ♪ ♪ and stars are shinin' bright ♪ ♪ up in the skies above ♪ ♪ or at the high school dance ♪ ♪ where you can find romance ♪ ♪ maybe it might be love ♪ ♪ ra-ma la-ma la-ma ka ding-a da ding-a dong ♪ ♪ shoo-bop sha wad-da wad-da yip-pi-ty boom de boom ♪ ♪ chang chang chang-it... ty chang shoo-bop ♪ ♪ dip da-dip da-dip doo-wop da doo-bee doo ♪ ♪ boog-e-dy boog-e-dy boog-e-dy boog-e-dy shoo-by doo-wop she-bop ♪ ♪ sha-na-na-na-na-na-na-na yip-pi-ty dip de doom ♪ ♪ ra-ma la-ma la-ma ka ding-a da ding-a dong ♪ ♪ shoo-bop sha wad-da wad-da yip-pi-ty boom de boom ♪ ♪ chang chang chang-it... ty chang shoo-bop ♪ ♪ dip da-dip da-dip doo-wop da doo-bee doo ♪ ♪ boog-e-dy boog-e-dy boog-e-dy boog-e-dy shoo-by doo-wop she-bop ♪ ♪ sha-na-na-na-na-na-na-na yip-pi-ty dip de doom ♪ ♪ a wop ba-ba lu-mop ♪ ♪ a wop bam boom ♪ ♪ made for each other like ♪ ♪ a wop ba-ba lu-mop and wop bam boom ♪ ♪ just like my brother is ♪ ♪ sha-na-na-na-na-na-na-na yip-pi-ty dip de doom ♪ ♪ chang chang chang-it... ty chang shoo-bop ♪ ♪ we'll always be together ♪ ♪ wha oooh, yeah ♪ ♪ we'll always be together ♪ ♪ i solve my problems and i see the light ♪ ♪ we got a lovin' thing ♪ ♪ we got to feed it right ♪ ♪ there ain't no danger we can go too far ♪ ♪ we start believin' now ♪ ♪ that we can be who we are ♪ ♪ grease is the word ♪ ♪ they think our love is just a growin'pain ♪ ♪ why don't they understand? ♪ ♪ it's just a cryin' shame ♪ ♪ their lips are lying ♪ ♪ only real is real ♪ ♪ we stop the fight right now ♪ ♪ we got to be what we feel ♪ ♪ grease is the word ♪ ♪ is the word ♪ ♪ is the word that you've heard ♪ ♪ it's got groove, it's got meaning ♪ ♪ grease is the time, is the place, is the motion ♪ ♪ grease is the way we are feelin' ♪ ♪ we take the pressure and we throw away ♪ ♪ conventionality ♪ ♪ belongs to yesterday ♪ ♪ there is a chance that we can make it so far ♪ ♪ we start believin' now ♪ ♪ that we can be who we are ♪ ♪ grease is the word ♪ ♪ is the word ♪ ♪ is the word that you've heard ♪ ♪ it's got groove, it's got meaning ♪ ♪ grease is the time ♪ ♪ is the place, is the motion ♪ ♪ grease is the way we are feelin' ♪ ♪ this is a life of illusion ♪ ♪ wrapped up in troubles ♪ ♪ laced in confusion ♪ ♪ what are we doing here? ♪ ♪ grease is the word ♪ ♪ is the word, is the word... ♪